- the PBP kernel is a _simulation_ of isolated, asynchronous components - on a single development computer
- just like our current idea of operating systems is also a simulation of components, but using shared memory instead of stand-alone parts - the shared-memory model is impractical for distributed systems that are geographically widely separated, so I claim that the PBP model will cause us to write software that will scale better across large distances
- I want to remove the trailing bit about "ongoing series" and debugging race conditions
- many race conditions are hard to debug because they are hard to reason about
- I'm going to paste in a bunch of references to videos and other articles related to PBP, at the end of the article
- coroutining is what our O/Ss do under the hood - the OS scheduler coroutines with all apps and threads in a system, it keeps a list of ready threads and algorithmically chooses one to give a slice of CPU time to - the scheduler fools with various registers and memory, sets a timer, then "yields" to the chosen thread. When the timer expires an OS routine is called to force the running thread to yield back to the Scheduler. Each thread _looks_ like a function (or chain of functions) but is actually a state machine which has its state saved by the scheduler in some privileged piece of O/S memory
- A drawio file can contain many drawings, each on a separate editor tab. Each drawing is a Container part. Each part on a diagram that doesn't correspond to some other drawing is assumed to be a Leaf part. Containers are converted to machine readable JSON that contains a list of children parts and routing information between them. Each Leaf part is simply assumed to exist - assumed to be imported by the main program (e.g. `main.py` in the case of using Python as the host language). All Leaf parts must be registered into the template registry. Container parts are automatically registered when their JSON is read.
- I'm going to include my initial set of raw notes as a github link, create a heading for this and I will paste in the URL
- drop "Cores are cheap". PBP is not about cores. PBP is a way to think about multi-processing without using complicated core management. The idea is simply to use multiple full-blown, totally isolated CPUs plus private memory, just passing messages between them, instead of relying on complicated hardware that ensures on-chip cache consistency.