# The Mars Pathfinder Mission Was An Engineering Marvel
- The Mars Pathfinder hardware landed on Mars.
- The Mars Pathfinder software crashed.

People on Earth figured out what the bug was and fixed it at long distance. This is a testament to human ingenuity, not to our programming prowess.

==Mars Pathfinder==
# C Is "Close To The Hardware"
K&R C uses the capabilities of PDP-7 hardware.

C on most other machines imposes a "calling convention" that is not directly supported by the hardware. The notion of a "calling convention" has leaked into the design of WASM and causes extra work for implementing TCO (tail call optimization).

The idea of a "calling convention" hard-wires the notion of "functions" into our programming languages. Before C, programming languages provided "subroutines" and "functions". After C, only "functions" remained. This idea hard-wires the notion that the right way to deal with reprogrammable machines is to treat instruction recipes as synchronous, sequential, computable functions.

Some languages don't use a "calling convention" as we know it. Forth, for example. Prolog (Datalog, etc.), concatenative languages, declarative languages like HTML, etc. Forcing a standard kind of "calling convention" down their throats results in bloat.
# UNIX Was Written in C
Unix was written in assembler.
It was ported to K&R C in V4.
# Concurrency and Multi-tasking Is Parallelism
Multi-tasking is based on the techniques of time-sharing. Programs are (involuntarily) chopped up and run in little time slices. This happens in sequence, not in parallel.

I believe that thinking that these same techniques should be stretched over parallel domains (like the internet, robotics, etc.) is a death march.
# We've Always Done It This Way
What we're doing is but a whack-a-mole approach to progress in software programming.
# We Need Type-Checking
Sutherland produced Sketchpad in assembler.\
Visicalc invented a new programming paradigm (spreadsheets) using assembler.\
Prolog was originally written in FORTRAN.\
Turbo Pascal was originally written in assembler.\
K&R C was written in B.\

Assembler programs display their displeasure at incorrect typing by crashing. We could use a tool that tries to detect this kind of problem early. When we jumped the shark and invented user-defined types (as opposed to CPU pre-defined types) complexity and bloat increased massively.

Even worse, we have been forcing user-defined types onto reprogrammable hardware that does not directly support such types. This has led to unnecessary bloat and inefficiency ==The Big OOPs==

# SIMD and SIMT Will Lead To Generalized Parallelism
SIMD and SIMT are optimizations targeted at problems that need to compute the same algorithm over lots of different data, e.g. graphics and GPUs.

Stretching these optimizations over other kinds of problems is a death march.
# Writing Compilers is Difficult
Writing grammars is easy today, with the advent of OhmJS and Ohm-editor.\
Writing type checkers is more difficult than it should be. This is a problem for relational programming (e.g. Prolog and friends). We should be using workflows that allow us to mix and match best practices for each problem domain (e.g. grammar writing, vs. type checking vs. code emission).\
We have lots of compilers already, we simply shouldn't be writing any more compilers. We should be writing T2T (text-to-text) transmogrifiers that use existing languages as "assembler" ==Alan Kay quote== ==T2T tool==
# Programming Languages Need To Be Based On Text
Textual programming languages are but caveman IDEs for programming reprogrammable hardware, based on the weak and expensive hardware of the early days of programming.

We can easily use diagrams as syntax (DaS) today, even with today's text-only parsing tools. Many diagram editors, like draw.io and Excalidraw, save out 2D diagrams as parseable flat text (XML, graphML) ==PBP das2json==. The text representation might not be appealing to human readers, but, it is quite parseable and rewritable by machines using our current toolchains.
# Programming Projects Need To Use One Main Language
Our IDEs encourage the notion of one language at a time.

We need to invert that workflow to allow for using _many_ languages for any one project. We should be allowed to pick and choose languages based on their expressivity for each sub-domain of any project. Most projects don't fall into a single paradigm and should not all be threaded through the eye of the needle of the synchronous, sequential paradigm. Our current supply of programming languages are all based on the same fundamental paradigm - synchronous, sequential - hence, programmers try to force-fit every problem into that paradigm with resulting bloat and accidental complexity.

Use of multiple languages has been given a bad name because of the clumsiness of textual programming languages. It's hard to learn to read paradigms force-fitted into textual form in ill-suited languages, so the inference is that learning multiple languages must be hard. That's not the problem. The fundamental problem is the over-user of a single programming paradigm forced into textual notation by the weakness and expense of early reprogrammable machine hardware. Hardware and software capabilities are much better in the 21st century than they were half a century ago, but, we keep on programming as if we are still using old hardware because "we've always done it this way" ==??==

UNIX and UNIX pipelines were a step in that direction, but, the programming community has side-stepped those ideas instead of improving upon them.==OLTRTA==  Linux and MacOS
# Operating Systems Are Fundamental Laws of Nature
Operating systems are scaffolding for the functional programming paradigm (where "C" is a functional programming language, albeit flawed).

Operating systems, also, capture our intent to build code libraries and to strive to snap code together like snapping LEGO blocks together. This is flawed by the fact that operating systems insist that code libraries be written as functions, which, when mapped onto hardware, results in hidden dependencies (CALL/RETURN using a callstack in shared memory). This method of writing libraries _cannot_ result in LEGO-like snapping-together of code blocks (because of the hidden dependencies).


- parameterization
- generalization is better than specialization
- JIT is something new 
	- it is but a politically correct way to say "dynamic typing"
	- we've spent 50+ years going down the AOT typing route and have found it necessary to circle back to JIT typing
- 
- death march