I didn't witness the birth of schematic notation nor the genesis of synchronous, sequential, function-based notation. I observe, though, that schematic notation works well with asynchronous "black box" components that obey the laws of physics (e.g. inputs and outputs characterized with timing diagrams), whereas synchronous / sequential notation doesn't do so well and complicates simple things like parallelism and concurrency. Drawing diagrams of asynchronous black box components is easy, whereas drawing diagrams of synchronous, tightly-coupled functions is not easy. Historically: to use text as programming notation, we cherry-picked a few words from the English language. To use diagrams as programming notation, we can simply do the same - cherry-pick a few figures. The secret to drawing diagrams is to ensure that components on the diagrams represent fully isolated components, and, not ones that are tightly coupled. Functional notation for components is not tightly coupled, nor bound by physics, when expressed on paper, but becomes tightly bound when mapped onto CPUs (call/block/return behaviours). Knowing this, it is easy to see how to fix the "problem" (queues, first class functions), which then opens the doors to a wider range of syntax (text + figures + wires).

I attribute the existence of Moore's Law to the asynchronous "black box" approach used for expressing electronic circuits. I observe that there is no equivalent to Moore's Law in software.

In my view, the giants of the 20th century were solving a different class of problems than the kinds of problems we face in the 21st century. Continuing to stand on the shoulders of 20th century software giants isn't productive and is essentially self-flagellation leading to unnecessary complexity, IMO.