
# Programming Language Schizophrenia

Some programming languages are meant to deal with bit and byte level issues.

Most programming languages, though, attempt to lay semantic niceties over top of the low-level basic operations provided by CPUs.

UNIX v1 was written in assembler (not C) and used PDP-7 machine-code concepts. K&R C lifted UNIX V4 from assembler to K&R C.

Today’s concept of a “high level language” goes way beyond that of K&R C. These high level languages try to unify semantics and bit-level twiddling. This is schizophrenia.

K&R C was meant to twiddle bits and bytes. Modern programming languages, including ANSI standard C, are meant to twiddle semantic concepts and user-defined data layouts, not bits and bytes at a "lower" level.

In the bit-twiddling domain, a bool is a byte, hence any 8-bit operation on it is valid, including addition and subtraction.

In the semantics-first domain, a bool is semantically a boolean and no arithmetic operation is valid.

I think that the problem is “one language to rule them all”-ism.  We need languages that describe designs in high level, semantic ways to be used as tools for developers. And we need _other_ languages that deal with low-level composition of opcodes. You can't address both issues using only a single language. Modern languages trade away low level operations while emphasizing higher level expression.

What we need - and don’t really have - are tools that transmorgrify high level, semantic descriptions to bit/byte level descriptions. In [The Big OOPs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wo84LFzx5nI), Muratori points out that our semantic-expression-level languages are not well suited for creating byte-level machine code. Modern programming languages give us all sorts of paradigms for thinking about programs, but leave artifacts ("bloat") in the code that are caused by emphasis on high-level semantic issues.
