I'd be interested in your thoughts along these lines:

The ideal would be to create LEGO-like architectural patterns that can be snapped into projects or borrowed and customized for each project.

We are discouraged from creating such an environment due to our insistence on using "functions" as a base substrate for programming and by our belief that "referential transparency" is the same as LEGO snappability. Referential transparency mapped onto hardware is not the same as LEGO snappability. When "functions" are mapped onto hardware, the implementation brings in control-flow baggage in the form of blocking on every function call (the caller suspends waiting for the callee to return), which imposes a synchronous protocol and creates a hidden dependency chain that makes it more difficult than necessary to snap units into and outof code.

Units of function-based code are not interchangeable because snapping them into / outof code can change the overall behaviour of the system.

<diagram?>

It is possible to get the effects of referential transparency by using pin-for-pin compatibility without using functions as the substrate. EEs do it using schematics. Schematics don't impose 1-in/1-out rules on the units, too, so it is possible to come up with designs that defy function-based thinking.

The idea of using functions is inspired by the sequential nature of CPU ICs.

which PLs don't use functions as a base substrate (i.e. a "calling convention" as currently in vogue)?:
- Forth
- Prolog
- EE schematics