https://www.cambra.dev/blog/announcement/

> ...
> All modern computer programs ultimately work in terms of the same foundational model: bits stored in memory and instructions to manipulate them.
> ...
> So, the systems we build often end up brittle. But why? Is it a necessary consequence of building complex systems? We don’t think so. We think it happens for a specific reason.
> ...
> When we build a system out of components, the model we use to reason about the system is determined by these _interaction models_, not the internal models. When components use a lower-level model to interact, the whole system is forced down to that level. In internet software, systems are overwhelmingly forced into what we call the “networks and operating systems” model: computers, processes, memory, network addresses, packets. These are powerful abstractions, but they’re far removed from what we actually care about. They work in terms of bytes and addresses, not objects, people, places, and actions.
> ...
> That means that trying to keep a system coherent limits what that system can ultimately do.
> ...
> Unfortunately, the listed models are all domain-specific–they don’t generalize to other contexts. And most modern internet software is not domain-specific.
> ...
> “Domain-aligned” and “domain-specific” sound suspiciously similar, don’t they?
> ...
> - Stateless, single-page javascript apps
> ...
> ## **Generality Without Fragmentation**
> ...

- CPUs are but building material. CPUs don't _define_ programming. CPUs are but building material. To program a CPU, you have to talk to them in their model, but, that doesn't mean that all of programming must use the same model
	- You can build different models using the same building material, e.g. CPUs can build FP models (O/S + FP languages like C, Haskell, Rust, Clojure, etc.).
		- you write "code" in CPU asm that implements the functional model, allowing programmers to use the functional model instead of the asm model to write the rest of the code ; the underlying scaffolding built in asm supports the functional model ; the underlying scaffolding consists of Operating Systems that support function-calling conventions and single threads whose state can be captured and manipulated by the O/Ss ; this implies that the other "feature" of O/Ss - a library of useful components - is written _only_ in the functional model (restricting how libraries can be used, i.e. through functional composition restricting other kinds of composition)
	- CPUs can build Prolog / relational models
		- you write "code" in CPU asm that implements the relational model, allowing programmers to use the relational model instead of the asm model to write the rest of the code ; the underlying scaffolding built in asm supports the relational model
	- CPUs can used to build the Forth model - an explicit stack and no functional-calling convention, threaded routines instead of functions
- CPUs implement sequential, synchronous stepping of opcodes, but, CPUs do _not_ inherently implement functions and calling conventions. CPUs don't implement functions, but, CPUs are sufficient building material for implementing the functional model. OTOH, the functional model is _not_ sufficient for implementing the non-calling-convention model that CPUs use. It's not a two-way mapping, it is only one-way.
	- give example
	- write pseudo-asm code for `a := 1; b := 1; c := a + b;` 
	- then write `function one_plus_one (a, b) { return a + b; } c := one_plus_one (1, 1); ``
- we used CPUs to implement the functional model and everything else is now built atop only that functional model
- software is just soft hardware, malleable hardware