The Pong circuit was built to directly run an NTSC (North American) cathode ray tube.

I think that we are going to delete big parts of that section of the circuitry when converting to PBP. The majority of the circuit is designed to run the game and keep score. We want to keep that portion, but ignore much of the stuff that deals with NTSC (since we've moved to more modern, digital display technologies). The display timing wires leak into the rest of the circuit, disabling some parts to match up with display requirements. At first, we're going to keep those wires, but, later consider whether we can generalize and remove them. The display timing wires  spread ad-hoc throughout the circuit. When we figure out how to remove them, the PBP version will become more readable.

For interest, I discuss some of the basics of CRTs in [this](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/crt-basics) article. You don't need to understand the details, but just having a high level overview might give the motivation for some of the words that appear on the schematic.

In essence, a CRT is a grid of rows and columns of dots that get lit up by a single electron beam that scans left to right and top to bottom. Words like "retrace" and "blanking" are the phases in the scan where the beam is turned off and moved back to the left side of the screen or back to the top of the screen. A nuance: the left-to-right scan is actually analog, not strictly digital - we took an analog device and made it more digital with the digital circuitry. It was deemed "simpler" to treat the device as being digital instead of analog.

NTSC is a standard timing for the sweeping of the beam. A different standard is used in Europe (called "PAL"). If I understand correctly, the Pong circuit was hard-wired to handle NTSC. In practice, this hard-wiring wasn't a problem, since the Pong game was shipped with the CRT built into it - so the factory got to choose which standard to use and did not have to accommodate connecting the game to local TV sets.
