# Two main stages in program design
1. *design* - iterative, spiral
2. *production engineering* of chosen design

# Failure is the best way to learn.

Most modern programming languages lean heavily towards *production engineering* and optimization and *discourage* sweeping design changes - this is basically the Waterfall method.

We need many small tools, using our souped up development systems to explore the design space without getting bogged down in minutia like type consistency, optimization, synchronous sequential operation and provability. All these little things are more about designing and implemented *code* instead of designing *products*.

The goal is: push one button to get a complete re-implementation of the MVI. This you the freedom to change your mind every time you learn something new. Make the change, hit the button to rebuild.

Changing your mind should result in turn around time measured in minutes instead of weeks.

# Design early. Redesign every time you learn something new.
- In 40+ years as software consultant I learned that every project domain was more complex than I had originally contemplated
- This is akin to the bench testing attitude in hardware designs. Try things out on a breadboard, then, commit to laying out a PC board only after the prototype has been debugged and is working.
- I learned that it is less expensive to write the code multiple times than to commit to one body of code and to keep on tweaking it.

Strive for an MVI instead of an MVP.   Minimum Viable Implementation instead of Minimum Viable Product. I.E. Don't skimp on the product design, skimp on code optimization instead.

Use small tools to get a prototype of the full product running before choosing one variation as the production target.

# Stages
## stage 1
- learn about the problem domain, go back to the drawing board each time you learn something new
- spiral in to a design that achieves goals
- alternate between top-down and bottom-up design
- little snippets of code that work inspire new ways to refine the design and to explore limits of what can be accomplished by the technology
## stage 2
- Production Engineering of chosen design
- optimization
- automated consistency checking
- automated CI
- testability


# Leanpub Approach
I expect to spiral in towards the design of the book, based on emails from early readers.

I used ghostAI to sketch out the main backbone of the book, but I expect that this outline will change.



# image
Funnel cloud lying on its side, large side to the left narrowing towards the middle and flat lined from the middle over to the right. The left side represents a spiralling in of design ideas towards one chosen design at around the middle, at which point we can switch to production engineering and optimization and automation of the final product using current programming languages




