> Do you have other examples than mutability? Have you actually worked in polyglot codebases? It becomes painful when languages need to interact.

	a. I think that Sector Lisp is the current epitome of pure functional programming (FP). Most current programming languages (C and after) are derived from that model (synchronous, sequential, using functions). Anything "added" to make Sector Lisp "more practical" would fall into the category of not being pure FP and of contributing to bloat, e.g. assignment, language interoperability, user-defined types, control flow (beyond COND and function calling), concurrency (not to be confused with parallelism), exceptions, side-effects, etc. The concepts of having multiple async outputs and inputs, and, parallelism aren't even present (but, I believe them to be incredibly useful). Adding this kind of stuff to pure FP - starting with "functions" as the substrate - is a clunky, bloatful way of proceeding.
b. I've used polyglot in synchronous, sequential programming languages and in `*NIX`. It was painful when using sync/seq PLs, it was easy in `*NIX`. Yet, something about `*NIX` feels heavy, so something better would be needed.  This suggests (at least to me) teasing out the "good parts" of `*NIX`. Further it suggests that our current kitchen sink model - just pile every good thing into one language with a sync/seq substrate  - is backwards. I think that we should explore a model which allows composition of many laser-focussed notations (aka PLs) to be used to solve practical problems. The stuff I'm doing (and Kagi is doing) along the lines of [PBP](https://github.com/guitarvydas/pbp) (0D) is a step in that direction. (Many more links available if interested. Much of it WIP stuff).