@everyone, if anyone is interested in building Pong in PBP with my kibitzing from the original Atari schematic, contact me.

I started to tinker with redesigning Pong from scratch, fell behind and now have run out of bandwidth, due to a lot of non-technical issues.

It recently occurred to me that I should have simply stolen the original design, by building a PBP part for each IC used in the Atari schematic, redrawn the whole schematic in draw.io, got it running (however slowly) then should have culled and abstracted from there.

---

Do you have opinions / knowledge on how best to proceed? I've usually built projects as a one-man team - one should assume that I don't how best to collaborate and kibitz. Whatever is done, it should be shareable / workable by several people (if others want to join in). I tend to proceed in a top-down and bottom-up manner. Top == create a git repo that contains copies of the schematics, a copy of the PBP tool hierarchy, and then create the drawio equivalent of the schematic. Bottom == create one "IC" part and get it running and tested, say a simple AND gate. I know how to read schematics and would be happy to explain, if you don't already know. Likewise, I know how to start PBP repos and create parts. Should I create a kick-off repo, or should you do that, with only commentary from me? I would also be happy to use live video if our schedules match up (I'm in Toronto, EDT timezone) or maybe little youtube videos if asynchronous is better and might help. Is Python OK with you?