i’ve stopped using makefiles because the build is actually a lot simpler if you just use a couple of scripts and fool with environment variables, this lets me do do a build of the tool and it lets me call the tool as a sub part of another project…

---

1. The main build script is called `@make` and several custom files are needed `@defc`,  `@makec` and `@testc`
    
2. since in the end, we want to make a drawing we'll start out by using drawio as the drawing editor, I use the downloaded version and I get it from drawio.com
---

1. The kickoff repo will also contain one drawing file to be called `pong.drawio`
    
2. have you used the drawio editor before?
---

1. I will include a pbp.xml file containing a template for each kind of stock part, we’ll just grab the part template change its name to "AndGate" then add one input gate, one output gate, and one error gate. Gate is the same thing as a port, but I use the word gate to differentiate ports that are meant to be in and out ports from the outside world
    
2. actually for the AndGate part, there will be two input input ports, and therefore two input gates I guess I’ll call them A and B
---

and the output port will be will be named with the empty string, which is kind of like "stdout"

---

it will probably make more sense when you can see it on a drawing, but yes, there will be two inputs and two outputs for the part and for this simple test there will be one. There will be two input gates and two output gates as you noticed.

---

The drawing editor allows you to have multiple drawings each on a separate tab, if any part has a name that doesn’t appear on another tab than that part is implemented in python

---

1. The underlining Python has to register the part and has to provide an instantiator routine, along with a reset routine and a handler routine. In this simple example, the code will seem like overkill, but when we get to bigger things, the code will make more sense. Each part gets exactly one input queue and exactly one output queue. The handler gets called to handle exactly one input message at a time chosen from the front of the queue. In fact I call messages Mevents because Mevents are key value pairs. The key is a string which represents the input port for the part that the message came in on, and the value is the payload also a string at this time we work only with strings for input and output because that makes everything a lot simpler
    
2. The handler function takes two parameters: a port and an Mevent, typically it *cases* on the port and does something with the payload. When it wants to send an output, it calls the *send* function with its own ė self, the name of the port output for it the payload string and a fourth argument for debugging which is the event that caused the send (aside: "ė" is just an arbitrary character, like "λ", chosen from the Lithuanian character set instead of the Greek character set)
    
3. I don’t know how to write *case* statements in Python so I just use *if...elif* statements
---

1. The biggest difference with PBP parts is that they are totally isolated from one another. You can only send Mevents between them and the scheduler decides when the part gets to run. The scheduler only runs parts that have at least one Mevent in their input queue or have an internal flag set to keep running them, which is necessary for interfacing with existing code. that isn’t PBP based.
    
2. The difference is that when you call a function, the caller pauses blocks until the colleague produces and returns a value. In PBP the caller does not wait. It’s basically send-and-forget. It’s kind of like a system of communicating state machines. This might sound harder, but actually turns out to be a more flexible way to write code.
    
3. given this behavior, I find it a lot easier to chop a design up into tiny pieces like divide and conquer on steroids

---

