"Concurrency" is a concept tuned for allowing multiple functions to operate independently in the synchronous, sequential paradigm. It essentially uses a "trick" to allow this to happen - it assumes that the multiple functions are internally synchronized and it makes them run in a sequential manner.

This "trick" is useful for allowing us to think in terms of computation, but it doesn't address asynchronous systems. Hence, it only addresses about 5% of reality (this number is pulled out of thin air and is not measured, yet, I base it on the fact that cosmology is based on the functional paradigm which pushes aside 95% of the problem that can't be addressed in functional form, and calls it "dark matter")

- only simulates parallelism, is not full parallelism
- teaching this has obscured the fact that it is not true parallelism - people think that they are getting parallelism when using "thread libraries", but they are only getting time-slicing, i.e. multiple functions running on a single computer in a synchronous - not asynchronous - manner.
- micro-managed sharing of memory at the cell level instead of message-passing between isolated components
- upper-level, explicit message-passing vs. lower-level, implicit memory sharing
- the simplest, most efficient system would be a computer that is running exactly one program and not time-sharing the same computer with other programs
	- this would remove the need for a lot of internal complexity, i.e. "thread safety", since the single program does not share memory with any other program, hence, the compiler and the programming language could be massively simplified
- If we imagine multiple such devices running single programs, but not sharing memory, then the best way for them to communicate and synchronize would be to pass message packets to one another
	- This is what PBP does - it creates "parts" that are self-contained and do not share memory with other parts, it uses `send(...)` to explicitly send message packets ("mevents") between parts.
	- You are forced to write code that contains explicit message passing, instead of writing code that relies on implicit memory sharing. This maps to asynchronous reality better.