# Repeating Architectural Patterns

As we build a PBP version that mimics the original [Atari Pong schematic](https://www.reddit.com/r/EngineeringPorn/comments/ul49zt/the_original_pong_video_game_had_no_code_and_was/), I doubt that we will actually see strictly repeating high-level patterns emerge. I think that the strictly repeating patterns are embodied in the ICs used in the original circuit. Combinations of ICs on the schematic are used to create architectural chunks that don't repeat verbatim. 

The design of ICs is about as far as we can take the idea of strict, repeatable patterns. The design of the Pong schematic uses low-level repeatable patterns to build up higher-level chunks of architecture.

PBP is an attempt to allow expressing such chunks in a readable manner. We should be able to reuse low-level parts to build up customizable medium-level parts that are used to build up specific parts for a specific project.

Seasoned "architects" may recognize such high-level patterns and reuse them as customizable ideas that can be used (in a modified way) in other architectures.

We already see this kind of thing happening in electronics and other fields of engineering (e.g. civil engineering and bridge design - not all bridges are designed the same way, but sometimes general architectural features are reused.

When I showed the Pong schematic to someone versed in electronics design, they "immediately" saw architectural patterns in the design, but with tweaks. For example, a comment was that the scoring section used a BCD counter IC in a unique way to keep score in the Pong game. The person saw a low-level pattern used in a custom manner and that suggested that he was looking at the scoring sub-circuit.

I guess one might say that PBP is a way to build up custom Designs using very low level patterns, while leaving the high-level Design readable. Currently, electronics schematics are filled with implementation details that obfuscate the design to anyone but seasoned architected. 

Likewise with the way we write code. The code consists of a bunch of details that don't tend to reveal the over-lying Design, unless the programmer(s) was careful to use common idioms and unless the reader is a seasoned programmer who rapidly recognizes the use of such idioms.

The colourized version of the Pong schematic was probably done by a seasoned electronics person. The person recognized areas within the circuit that were aimed at solving specific sub-problems, then grouped such areas together by colouring them. People who aren't versed in reading schematics can understand the colourized groups without needing to understand the actual details of the electronics inside each group.