Here are some things I was told to believe. I no longer believe them and have begun to wonder what "programming" is.
# The Mars Pathfinder Mission Was An Engineering Marvel
False.

- The Mars Pathfinder hardware landed on Mars.
- The Mars Pathfinder software crashed.

People on Earth figured out what the bug was and fixed it at long distance. This is a testament to human ingenuity, not to our programming prowess.

==Mars Pathfinder==
# C Is "Close To The Hardware"
False.

K&R C uses the capabilities of PDP-7 hardware.

C on most other machines imposes a "calling convention" that is not directly supported by the hardware. The notion of a "calling convention" has leaked into the design of WASM and causes extra work for implementing TCO (tail call optimization).

The idea of a "calling convention" hard-wires the notion of "functions" into our programming languages. Before C, programming languages provided "subroutines" and "functions". After C, only "functions" remained. This idea hard-wires the notion that the right way to deal with reprogrammable machines is to treat instruction recipes as synchronous, sequential, computable functions.

Some languages don't use a "calling convention" as we know it. Forth, for example. Prolog (Datalog, etc.), concatenative languages, declarative languages like HTML, etc. Forcing a standard kind of "calling convention" down their throats results in bloat.
# UNIX Was Written in C
False.

Unix was written in assembler.\
It was ported to K&R C in V4.\
# Concurrency and Multi-tasking Is Parallelism
False.

Multi-tasking is based on the techniques of time-sharing. Programs are (involuntarily) chopped up and run in little time slices. This happens in sequence, not in parallel.

I believe that thinking that these same techniques should be stretched over parallel domains (like the internet, robotics, etc.) is a death march.
# We've Always Done It This Way
What we're doing is but a whack-a-mole approach to progress in software programming.==Grace Hopper==
# We Need Type-Checking
False.

Sutherland produced Sketchpad in assembler.\
Visicalc invented a new programming paradigm (spreadsheets) using assembler.\
Prolog was originally written in FORTRAN.\
Turbo Pascal was originally written in assembler.\
K&R C was written in B.\
Forth was originally written in COBOL.\

Assembler programs display their displeasure at incorrect typing by crashing. We could use a tool that tries to detect this kind of problem early. When we jumped the shark and invented user-defined types (as opposed to CPU pre-defined types) complexity and bloat increased massively.

Even worse, we have been forcing user-defined types onto reprogrammable hardware that does not directly support such types. This has led to unnecessary bloat and inefficiency ==The Big OOPs==

User-defined types are to CPUs like what CPUs are to digital electronics.

We need type checking because we insist on using textual programming languages and insist on growing bigger programs by simply gluing chunks of textual code together.

Type checking wasn't a problem when all code fit in one eye-full on the screen.

Type checking became necessary when all the code for a project no longer fit in one eye-full.

The problem is how to increase program, not type checking. For example, if we - fully - isolated all units of code from one another, and ensured that each unit fit in one eye-full, and made it possible to deal with each unit separately, without implicit coupling, we could manage program growth differently and more reliably.

I argue that we need to think in terms of multiple types of code units 
1. Leaf parts that perform some action(s)
2. Container parts that recursively join parts together to achieve some actionable goals
==PBP==

# SIMD and SIMT Will Lead To Generalized Parallelism
False.

SIMD and SIMT are optimizations targeted at problems that need to compute the same algorithm over lots of different data, e.g. graphics and GPUs.

Stretching these optimizations over other kinds of problems is a death march.
# Writing Compilers is Difficult
False.

Writing grammars is easy today, with the advent of OhmJS and Ohm-editor.\
Writing type checkers is more difficult than it should be. This is a problem for relational programming (e.g. Prolog and friends). We should be using workflows that allow us to mix and match best practices for each problem domain (e.g. grammar writing, vs. type checking vs. code emission).\
We have lots of compilers already, we simply shouldn't be writing any more compilers. We should be writing T2T (text-to-text) transmogrifiers that use existing languages as "assembler" ==Alan Kay quote== ==T2T tool==
# Programming Languages Need To Be Based On Text
False.

Textual programming languages are but caveman IDEs for programming reprogrammable hardware, based on the weak and expensive hardware of the early days of programming.

We can easily use diagrams as syntax (DaS) today, even with today's text-only parsing tools. Many diagram editors, like draw.io and Excalidraw, save out 2D diagrams as parseable flat text (XML, graphML) ==PBP das2json==. The text representation might not be appealing to human readers, but, it is quite parseable and rewritable by machines using our current toolchains.
# Programming Projects Need To Use One Main Language
False.

Our IDEs encourage the notion of one language at a time.

We need to invert that workflow to allow for using _many_ languages for any one project. We should be allowed to pick and choose languages based on their expressivity for each sub-domain of any project. Most projects don't fall into a single paradigm and should not all be threaded through the eye of the needle of the synchronous, sequential paradigm. Our current supply of programming languages are all based on the same fundamental paradigm - synchronous, sequential - hence, programmers try to force-fit every problem into that paradigm with resulting bloat and accidental complexity.

Use of multiple languages has been given a bad name because of the clumsiness of textual programming languages. It's hard to learn to read paradigms force-fitted into textual form in ill-suited languages, so the inference is that learning multiple languages must be hard. That's not the problem. The fundamental problem is the over-user of a single programming paradigm forced into textual notation by the weakness and expense of early reprogrammable machine hardware. Hardware and software capabilities are much better in the 21st century than they were half a century ago, but, we keep on programming as if we are still using old hardware because "we've always done it this way" ==??==

UNIX and UNIX pipelines were a step in that direction, but, the programming community has side-stepped those ideas instead of improving upon them.==OLTRTA==  Linux and MacOS
# Operating Systems Are Fundamental Laws of Nature
False.

Operating systems are scaffolding for the functional programming paradigm (where "C" is a functional programming language, albeit flawed).

Operating systems, also, capture our intent to build code libraries and to strive to snap code together like snapping LEGO blocks together. This is flawed by the fact that operating systems insist that code libraries be written as functions, which, when mapped onto hardware, results in hidden dependencies (CALL/RETURN using a callstack in shared memory). This method of writing libraries _cannot_ result in LEGO-like snapping-together of code blocks (because of the hidden dependencies).

# Computer Science Is A Science
False.

Computer Science is notation worship.

Programmers strive to force every problem through the eye of the needle of a single paradigm - the synchronous, sequential paradigm (often called "computation").

A single notation, based on the use of "functions" was arbitrarily deemed to be a law of nature and the "only" way to write actionable recipes for reprogrammable machines. This choice was based on an old-fashioned notation commonly called "mathematics", which is heavily influenced by an old-fashioned technology called "type setting" invented by Gutenberg some 500 years ago. ==How Gutenberg Harmed Mathematics==

# Programming Is The Key Concept
# Smalltalk Uses Message Passing
Smalltalk's "message passing" is an impure kind of synchronous message passing. 

Smalltalk's "message passing" is more like function-calling with a different syntax.

Smalltalk's "message passing" is a synchronous operation - the sender blocks and waits for the receiver to return a result.

I suspect (but haven't proven) that implementing asynchronous message passing in Smalltalk would entail rewriting the full Smalltalk class hierarchy.
# Functions Implement Message Passing
False.

A function call, for example `f(x)` does pass the data `x` to the callee, but, it also passes a control flow - a rendezvous with the callee. The caller suspends and waits for `f` to compute and return a result.

This combination of data-passing and control-flow passing is impure message passing. It should not be confused with pure message passing.

We didn't perceive the blocking control flow for a long time. It remained hidden from view because of economics. Early CPUs were so expensive that we could afford to use only one CPU at a time. CPUs operate so quickly that we humans cannot perceive the sequentiality and blocking that happens when functions are used in hardware. 

When we did begin to use multiple CPUs, one of the first things that was invented was the concept of RPC (remote procedure call) which made blocking very explicit. Programmers realized that RPC blocking behaviour did not map in general to the asynchronous use of physically separated CPUs, hence, RPC fell from favour, in lieu of using other complicated strategies.

On paper, the laws of physics can be ignored and function calls appear to happen instantaneously

Functions _can_ be used to implement pure, asynchronous message passing, but we need to manually build queues to decouple functions from other functions.

# Generalization Is Better Than Specialization
False.

I conclude that our desire to generalize the synchronous, sequential paradigm to cover all possible programming use-cases has resulted in bloat and inefficiency.

We used to speak in terms of kilo-bytes, but, now we regularly speak in terms of mega-bytes and tera-bytes, i.e. several orders of magnitude more memory is needed to force-fit every concept into the single chosen paradigm (synchronous, sequential). It's not clear that we have proportionately benefitted by orders of magnitude increase in programming capability.

Yes, we need more memory to represent richer forms of data and media, but, this does not necessarily imply that code size should increase, too. In fact, the idea of "progress" should imply that code size should shrink, not grow.

The first multi-tasking kernel that I studied was about 1/2 page of code (==Holt's book==). Operating systems that try to include everything and the kitchen sink, like Windows, are now above 55,000,000 lines of code in size. Even Linux and MacOS are not just 1/2 page of code.

# Code Libraries Are Pluggable Like LEGO Bricks
False.

Code libraries, due to the use of operating systems based on the synchronous, sequential paradigm, must be written as functions.

Functions are implicitly, strongly coupled, not loosely coupled like LEGO bricks, because functions bring hidden control-flow baggage with them, when the laws of physics come into play.

Functions call and block other functions - this is strong coupling.

Functions and function parameters are typed in many differing ways. LEGO bricks use but one type - the peg. All pegs are the same, whether the blocks are rectangular or other kinds of shapes. Generalizing and allowing differing types to form the coupling substrate for joining functions together drives code libraries away from the basic, simple concepts of LEGO blocks. Even if strong, varied typing is deemed a benefit, it should not be allowed to affect the low-level communication substrate (the "transport layer") between blocks of code. We should be thinking in terms of layers - loosely defined at the low level, and increasingly more detailed and more tightly defined as we go up to higher levels.

# Multi-Tasking Is Difficult, Hard Real-Time Is Even More Difficult
Five year olds learn to read a notation for hard real-time and to execute it. Piano lessons. They don't need university degrees to learn the basics of music and asynchronous parallelism. They can play notes and melodies that differ in the left hand and the right hand.




- CPU IC chips are just building material, like other fixed-function ICs. 
	- CPU ICs can be used to build engines for many different paradigms, they don't need to be used in only one way, e.g. to build only one kind of engine - the functional, synchronous, sequential engine consisting of operating systems, and calling conventions.
	- Forth is an example of a different kind of engine
	- Prolog is an example of a different king of engine
- 
- parameterization
- generalization is better than specialization
- JIT is something new 
	- it is but a politically correct way to say "dynamic typing"
	- we've spent 50+ years going down the AOT typing route and have found it necessary to circle back to JIT typing
- 
- death march