> I like those drawings

I seem to be able to type at the speed of thought, but, I get the most positive comments when I use diagrams.

I have the same feeling - when I manage to draw a diagram of what I'm trying to say, I feel more satisfied. It's harder and the tools aren't very supportive. It seems that our 20th century phobias about automating diagram editing and diagram parsing are still very deeply engrained in the computer science culture.

I've been toying with creating YouTube videos (using Descript and, sometimes, iMovie), but, after some 100 or so videos, I still don't feel like that's an easy way to visualize what I mean.

> I think the LLM helps make it more "normalized", which is probably more palatable to others, but I personally prefer the earlier rawer notes. This is "easier to read", which is probably good, but my eyes glaze slightly on it (but I already agree with the premise, so I'm not the target audience).

I'm torn on the LLM issue and would appreciate lots more feedback about it. My perception is that very few people read what I wrote until I started using Claude as my co-writer. I find that I don't like reading nor editing my own raw text, and using LLMs gives it a little "lift" that makes the prose flow better. Using an LLM as a co-writer has certainly made the feedback more extreme (more extremely positive and more extremely negative). I dunno.

As an aside, I've been poking at writing books on leanpub. Their latest offering is called "ghostAI". They wrote a set of SKILLS.md files to impart actual book writing / editing skills to AI, like the SKILLS.md that enable vibe coding. I have hope that this will cause me to write better, without having to pay for editors to preen my stuff. I wonder if SKILLS.md just isn't the "programming language of the future". In any case, I decided to try ghostAI out with a subject that I don't seem to write much about - Failure Driven Development - which is probably at the heart of all of the stuff that I do write about. They even did a quick interview with me which hit my inbox a few hours ago [FDD Launch Video](https://youtu.be/Gr4FwmdgsPM).