Most programmers seem to assume that a "language" is the same thing as a "compiler".

I don't agree.

A "language" is just a notation that helps you think about a problem domain more easily.

A "compiler" is a piece of code that converts a language into machine code suitable for running on a CPU-based computer.

When you separate the two concepts, it becomes possible to imagine building new languages without spending time and effort on building full-blown compilers for each new language.

The question becomes - can you create a new language in much less time than it takes to build a language plus a compiler for that language?

I conclude that, yes, you can whip up new languages in a lot less time than has been necessary to build languages+compilers. There are several ways to do this. The point of the [Separating Architecture From Code](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/experiment-separating-architecture?r=1egdky) and [Implementing The Experimental ST Meta-Syntax](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/implementing-the-experimental-st?r=1egdky) articles was to show that a new "language" could be designed and implemented using T2T. The new language is akin to markdown for code. The reference to the T2T tool is in the second article.

Another way to do this is to explain the new language to an LLM and then have it generate code for any source code written in the new language.

A lot of programmers don't like Javascript, for the same reasons they don't like assembler, or C, or ... This dislike doesn't matter when machines, instead of humans, generate code in those languages.

A "good language" for humans is one that prevents and catches common kinds of bugs.

A "good language" for machine-generated code has a completely different set of criteria. What matters is that the target language has easy-to-generate syntax and allows a lot of semantic flexibility (like supporting GOTOs), and, sometimes whether you need to hook to some already-existing code written in some specific language - this is actually the case when hooking to OhmJS, since it requires that semantics be written in Javascript (WASM recently supported, too).

The purpose of little languages is to allow humans to develop solutions to problems easily. When we believe that it costs very little to generate little languages, we might begin thinking differently about how to develop code. I favour the idea of building project-specific little languages (I call them "SCNs" for Solution Specific Notations) and using many different little languages inside any one project. Many people balk at this notion based mostly on the fact that the way we design and implement programming languages is very complicated. I suggest that if we had a plethora of uncomplicated, specialized, low cost, little languages, then we could allow ourselves to think and program differently.
