Unlike in the 1960s, we can expand our definitions of who/what "programs" are for.

We've been ingrained to think in terms only of 1960s biases, i.e. that programs are only for end-users and that all programs must be prematurely optimized to be incredibly efficient.

In the 21st century, the tables have turned - CPUs and memory are cheap today and we are allowed to stop prematurely optimizing _every_ program. We are allowed to build programs that are aimed at program development in addition to programs aimed at end users. The needs for each domain are entirely different, e.g. end user programs need to be efficient and cheap (when sold in volume), whereas development workflows only need to result in massively faster development turn around - "fast enough" on a development machine is "good enough". It's only worthwhile expending effort to "production engineer" programs that *have* to be fast and cheap. Over-engineering code that doesn't need to be production engineered has huge costs in turn-around time and in the mental shackles imposed by 20th century biases.

Programming languages, as we know them, are just caveman IDEs for developing assembler scripts to be run on CPU-based computers. As developers, we should want a workflow that allows us to think in terms of many paradigms, while end-users (say, gamers) should want programs and hardware that are fast and cheap.

Programming languages contain generalized solutions to big problems. These generalizations don't actually apply to most code, especially in the age of the internet and distributed processing. For example, just about every programming language includes swaths of code and complication for dealing with "thread safety". This extra stuff warps the way we allow ourselves to write any program, regardless if "thread safety" applies to our code or not. The need for thread safety is caused by our 20th century bias for packing all code onto a single, shared memory CPU (or multi-core computer). The internet makes the issue of "thread safety" moot - nodes on the internet do not share memory and in general use only "pure" message passing (unlike what is commonly called "message passing" today). If we used tools and techniques that dumped some of these preconceived, generalized ideas, we'd end up with tools and thought processes that were much, much simpler (say, like BASIC programs before type checking was invented - the types were so "obvious" to the reader, that type checking was unnecessary and could be entirely avoided).

Another example: why do we use "operating systems"? How big are "operating systems" today? The first multi-tasking kernel I studied was about one page of assembler. Can we write multi-tasking kernel code ourselves? (A: yes). Is it harder to do this in assembler and C than in something like Python? (A: yes, much harder and much slower turn-around. The assembler version probably runs a lot faster, but at what cost in development turn-around time?).

Physicists are taught to think in terms of many different, custom little notations, to deep dive into a problem domain. For example, Feynman didn't use "math" to think about (and solve) a hoary part of physics - he invented and used Feynman Diagrams.

The same kind of thing applies to program development. For example, if you want
- exhaustive search: use relational programming instead of hoary, bug-ridden loops within loops using the languages that are currently popular
- string matching: use parsing. Many programmers reach for REGEXing, but that's not as powerful as parsing and much clumsier and less readable.
- etc.

Committing to use of "functions" has already pre-determined that you will use one and only one paradigm that affects all of your thinking - i.e. the synchronous, sequential paradigm. CPUs work on that principle, but that doesn't mean that every programming language must work that way, too (as is the case with most function-based programming languages that we use today, including C and C++).

Basically: write code using multiple paradigms and multiple little languages (SCNs - solution centric notations), bolt them all together into a final program, then measure and spend time optimizing the parts that matter. For example, the problem with OOP isn't that it's a bad way to think, it's only bad when you map it directly onto CPU-based hardware. We were forced by 20th century economics to map OOP directly onto hardware of the day, but, we don't need to do that any more in the 21st century.

Example: UNIX was originally written in assembler (V1-V3, V4 was the first version written in K&R C). Apparently, assembler wasn't too hard to use for writing useful code. K&R C was then invented with the result that it permanently grafted the notion of "functions" (PVR subroutines (parameterized, value returning subroutines)) onto our notion of "programming". K&R C was essentially a transpiler from K&R C text to assembler text. Then, C was wildly complexified and turned into a behemoth called ANSI C - a completely different language from K&R C. C is no longer "close to the hardware", only K&R C was "close to the hardware" (PDP-xx hardware) with concepts like "++" and "--", while the notion of "functions" wasn't actually ever "close to the hardware". The notion of "close to the hardware" is false advertising that we grew up with.

ANSI-C is essentially the kitchen sink version of K&R C. It tries to accommodate every CPU architecture known to man in one big blob of overkill notation. Instead, if we had the liberty to whip up little languages and notations, we might have built multiple kinds of Cs all driven from very specific notations for each *project* (instead of a kitchen sink designed to force every program to solve every problem and pay a huge tax). This kind of thing was being researched in the early days of compiler building, like for instance Cordy's Orthogonal Code Generator stuff and Fraser/Davidson's Retargetable Code Generator stuff ("peepholing", "RTL" used by GCC). The stuff we're doing now - function-based programming languages - is good for analyzing code, but, actually not so good for mapping code onto real life hardware (see Muratori's "The Big OOPs").

Can we write little languages that map concepts onto various bits of hardware, from a high level description down to very specific implementations, one for each kind of target architecture? Yes. Can we do this better in the 21st century than what we could do in the 20th century? Yes. Is the kitchen-sink approach going to eventually fail us? Yes.

# Appendix - References
OCG
RTL
The Big OOPs
