Simplification has its benefits. In creating the SCN (little DSL - Solution Centric Notation) 'rwr', I made the following simplifications:

1. make it possible to easily transpile to existing languages, like Javascript
2. use _only_ strings, no other data structures (especially user-defined constructs)
3. allow the use of "eval()" during development (same as using a compiler, but more convenient)

This made it possible to create a little DSL that could be bolted onto OhmJS to create T2T. OhmJS expects "semantics" code to be written in Javascript. I whipped up a simple SCN, written in OhmJS, called "RWR" to concisely express rewrites as string operations (a simple set of operations including raw characters + string interpolation), obviating the need to write Javascript. T2T calls OhmJS twice, first to transmogrify the RWR code to JS, then to run the OhmJS along with the generated JS code. JS has an "eval()" function which makes this easy to do (generate JS code, eval it, then run OhmJS again to parse and transmogrify the `st` source code). The T2T code for the `st` example is only about 26+33 lines of code and was written in about an hour and a half.

Such simplifications lead to code that is not "production quality", but, in the 21st century we have the luxury of creating at least two kinds of code
1. code for production release
2. code for building tools that help speed up our own development workflow.

In the 20th century, the economics of CPUs and memory made it reasonable for us to trade off development time and effort to produce only one kind of code: code for production release. The tables have turned, though, and in the 21st century we have the luxury to make different kinds of trade offs for different purposes.

The 20th century perspective led us into using only one substrate paradigm - we assume that all programming languages must operate in a synchronous, sequential manner, just like CPU ICs.

We can loosen that constraint and examine and mimic approaches that aren't synchronous and sequential - like relational programming, backtracking, different "calling conventions" like that of Forth, massive asynchronous parallelism like that used in the circuit design of Atari's 1972 Pong game, like using sophisticated string matching tools such as ASTs to build helper SCNs for ourselves, etc.