> William Taysom  [3:38 PM]  

> Yes, this why/how distinction that is beginning to matter much more.  There is a funny relationship between the questions though.  I'm finding that a sufficiently precisely specified why tends to force the how.

I'm not sure that I agree. The first example that pops to mind is the use of relational programming, like Prolog.

In Prolog programs, you write relations declaratively and let the Prolog engine decide "how" to achieve the result.

If you were writing the code for the Prolog engine, though, you would need to specify a lot of "how". The functional code for miniKanren implements an engine that is used to support a different way of thinking.

HTML - without Javascript - is declarative, too. A lot of "what" and "why" and no "how".

In my mind, our functional and function-based mindset actually leads to blurring of "why" with "how". That mindset is too restrictive for anything but a small class of problems. You _can_ express a lot of programs with this mindset, but that doesn't mean that you _should_ or that it results in the cleanest / most-concise solution. The engine for function-based programming - mapping functional notation onto real hardware - is a big blob of code called the "operating system" (it converts functions into state machines that provide the necessary scaffolding to keep the illusion of functions-mapped-onto-hardware alive). Being stuck in a rut and over-doing the use of a single paradigm used to be called "epicycles".

The (original) idea behind DSLs was to separate "what" and "why" from "how". For example, BNF is just a DSL for expressing string matching.