> i don't get it. "eliminating thread safety" problems is just playing whackamole: the same problems will surface elsewhere, the fundamental issue of state consistency will not magically go away??

"Thread safety" is but a piece of accidental complexity caused by mapping the theoretical concept of synchronous "concurrency" (which is not the same as asynchronous "parallelism") onto synchronous, sequential hardware, such as a single CPU, using shared memory between processes. 

The thread safety issue can be wiped out by using processes that don't share memory. For example, nodes on an internet do not share memory and don't cause thread safety issues between one another. Software implementing a node can _choose_  to continue to use a shared memory model internally, and, hence, will not fully benefit from the simplicity of eradicating thread safety. Internet nodes are asynchronously parallel, but software inside nodes that use memory-sharing concurrency based on the synchronous, sequential paradigm cannot be parallel and are only synchronously concurrent.

Multi-core, as I understand it, doesn't give full relief from thread safety issues.

Switching to a pure message-passing paradigm internally will cause evaporation of thread safety concerns. Using function calls only looks like message-passing, but is actually an impure form of message passing (I don't know of a name for this impure form ; functions _block_ when calling other functions, hence, also pass control flow along with message data). Just about any modern programming language, especially those that conform to "calling conventions" fall into the category of being accidentally complexified.

I'll see if I can come up with a better explanation that de-conflates these issues. This will require some more thought...
