> > still doesn't fix the core issue of state coherence / consistency

That’s what Software Architecture is for. Trying to generalize the solution (as was done with thread safety) only bloatifies the result.

State isn't actually bad. Reality contains state. State within the FP paradigm is bad, though.

Programming languages based on the synchronous, sequential paradigm (i.e. most current PLs) make the use of state very clunky (global variables, if-then-else, blobs of state passed around as data, etc). That is a "tell" that this issue should be handled in a different notation. I kinda like [Harel Statecharts, as previously mentioned](https://guitarvydas.github.io/2023/11/27/Statecharts-Papers-We-Love-Video.html).

Languages like Prolog, Datalog, Ceptre, Nova, and concatenative languages are different (non-FP) approaches to the issue of state. Ceptre is based on linear logic. There are many ways of doing this other than by just doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results.

Automagic state coherence is just an inefficient trick that architects should be allowed to choose to use when necessary, instead of having it hard-wired into hardware and programming languages.

aside: SIMD and SIMT are just other automagic tricks that are very optimized for a narrow range of use-cases (graphics, GPUs), but, are just albatrosses around the necks of other use-cases.

The strive for generalization makes us feel that the solution to every conceivable problem must be spoon fed to us. Software Architects should want access to specialization and LEGO-like parts and layers. That's not what we have at this moment. It's within reach, though. It's mostly just a mind-set problem.