Thanks. That is a good description...

> State isn't simply memory or mutation; it is any dependency of the future on the past.  
  
> Issues such as coherence and race conditions can appear just as easily with message passing as they do with shared memory. For example, a shared-nothing actor in an actor model can still model a "mutable cell" in memory. You'd still have race conditions between reading and writing these cells.

Coherence is not needed most of the time. Premature coherence gives rise to inefficiency and overkill.

There is but only one race condition - when two events A and B arrive "simultaneously", if you can't tell in what order they arrived in, then it's a race condition. All of the other so-called race conditions are accidental complexities created by the use of an inappropriate substrate paradigm.

> The patterns of interaction are more relevant than whether those interactions are implemented using threads, actors, or processes.

Agreed. Maybe I'm reading more into what you've written than what you intended, but ... I perceive that our current trend of borrowing from the "functional programming" paradigm (starting with something like C) and wanting to believe that "everything is a computation" is a death march or, at best, a way to exponentially increase accidental complexity. Our use of functions for programming languages is just a convenience. It's a spherical cow that ignores asynchronicity, time and ordering to make some things simpler, but, it cannot - by definition - deal with the totality of Reality. 

I believe that we need ways to reason about state and ordering of events, regardless of how convenient the "everything is just a computation" paradigm is (only for a subset of problem domains, though). Reality is composed of state. We cannot address Reality without addressing state. I note that Nobel laureate Ilya Prigogene said the same thing about the functional approach to physics. In "Order Out of Chaos" he says that this approach has set physics back by 100 years.

aside: our current programming languages allow us to handle state but only in a clunky, low-level way - using global variables and if-then-else, or, bags of state passed around as parameters. Notation is important - language influences thought. Harel showed a notation (Statecharts) for expressing stateful control flow in a more convenient way some 40 years ago. Part of the problem, IMO, is the belief that we should try to use only one language at a time and try to glue everything into that language or invent workarounds to fit the problem into the underlying paradigm of the one language. Programming languages are just caveman IDEs for programming, devised in the early days of programming. If we, instead, had IDEs that allowed us to build solutions by composing snippets of code tuned for each sub-domain (instead of blobs of tangled, work-around-filled code written using General Purpose Languages) we might be able to drastically increase our development turnaround time. (aside to aside: the current belief that using multiple languages is difficult is based on the use of General Purpose Languages instead of more laser-focussed Special Purpose Languages. I know that using multiple languages is not that hard).

Further: 
[The Spherical Cows of Programming](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/the-spherical-cows-of-programming) 
[The Wrong Spherical Cow - First Principles of Parts Based Programming](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/the-wrong-spherical-cow-first-principles?r=1egdky) 
[The Case For Composable Notations (1 / 5) - The Spherical Cow We Forgot We Were Riding](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/the-spherical-cow-we-forgot-we-were?r=1egdky) 
[The Case For Composable Notations (2 / 5) - The Restrictions That Came With The Cow](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/the-case-for-composable-notations?r=1egdky) 
[The Case For Composable Notations (3 / 5) - State Isn’t The Enemy](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/the-case-for-composable-notations-e6c?r=1egdky) 
[The Case For Composable Notations (4 / 5) - Ease of Expression Is the Whole Point](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/the-case-for-composable-notations-2bd?r=1egdky) 
[The Case For Composable Notations (5 / 5) - UNIX Already Showed Us the Way](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/the-case-for-composable-notations-f31?r=1egdky) 
[The Case For Composable Notations (6 / 5) - WIP - Notations in Progress](https://programmingsimplicity.substack.com/p/the-case-for-composable-notations-0d3?r=1egdky)