> is the question how to scale to use all available hardware? I guess I’m confused because i’d rather work on a single node shared-memory system than two nodes any day  

Yes, but, one's problem domain affects one's choice
  
> I agree that if you’re thinking about locks, you’re in trouble and working on the wrong abstraction level. I’ve written a bunch of parallel code in julia and didn’t have to worry about locks (maybe the libraries I used handled all that…presuming they were written correctly, my code should be deadlock free because it didn’t involve anything that could deadlock)  
  
> I disagree that decentralization is a win. It adds the cognitive effort of moving data around efficiently: on a shared memory system, data movement is free—you pass a pointer. if data is decentralized, now you have to be clever. if the data you need isn’t where the CPU is, then it has to be copied over the wire somehow.  
  
> [MPI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHV6wmG35po) works nicely specifically because its API functions (broadcast, reduce) try to imitate synchronized shared-memory programming as much as possible (as much as it is called “Message Passing Interface” it is usually just a minimal data sync to pretend you are on a single machine)  
  
>i never want to have to be clever. gimme 100 CPU cores on a die instead of 100 stand-alone machines. second best, give me MPI where I can assume all my machines are doing the same work in sync. but even MPI is strictly more cognitive load than a single machine

> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHV6wmG35po

How was MPI written? What language was used? I'm probably targeting the internals of MPI, while you're probably targeting how MPI makes your job of manipulating big data easier and more transparent, regardless of the inefficiencies involved under the hood.

Computers - Reprogrammable Machines (RMs) - are applicable to many more domains than just data manipulation.

Beyond data manipulation, you don't get a choice. Reality decides for you. Let's imagine a robot that has all of it's compute in the "head" part of the physical robot "body" and wants to control the "right shoulder" motor. Reality says that these two things are separated by centimeters instead of nanometers. A framework for manipulating data might not be the most efficient way to arrange the software here. In my mind, it would be better to cleave the smarts into two physical spaces - the head and the shoulder each get their own RM, and the head RM only sends thin commands (requests) down to the shoulder RM. Arranged this way, a lot of bloat can be removed from the software in both places - the whole thing will run more efficiently. There is no need for a layer of bloatware that decides whether that request send is short range (nm) vs. long range (cm) - it's always long range (cm) by definition.

MPI might help with simplifying data manipulation tasks, but for things like long-distance (cm, m, km) control it is just a waste of code, i.e. bloatware. Using MPI in such instances is just wishful thinking and laziness.

At 3:47, the video says exactly that - MPI is designed for multi-node technical computing where the user of MPI doesn't need to worry about networking protocols. If you do need to worry about networking protocols, then MPI isn't helpful, it's wasteful. MPI is useful for 20th century problem domains, like big data, but not so helpful for 21st century problem domains, like the internet, robotics, gaming, etc.

Thinking, believing, that RMs are _only_ useful for data manipulation underutilizes the capabilities of these new-fangled things. It's a very closed-minded approach, IMO. At some point, you're going to want to extend data manipulation RMs over geographically wide-spaced continents, like a node in NYC, USA and another node in Paris, France. It's akin to having an Apple II in NYC and the LaserWriter in Paris. The early HP approach, needing very wide-band communication, just ain't gonna work as efficiently as the Postscript approach, no matter how much one were to wish that they were the same cost. The hidden hand is going to blow away any use of the wide-band, centralized, Borg approach when in competition with the narrow band, decentralized approach. In the 1960s, we couldn't afford to build RMs that made this difference apparent. In the 21st century we are being forced to address these problems, no matter how much wishful thinking is employed.

Using bloated frameworks to program decentralized RMs is a death march.

We must recognize that there are many layers to practical programming and provide better technologies for each, instead of over-focussing on only one layer, as is being done today. All of modern programming languages are based on the reality-denying assumption that computers must only be used for manipulating data. Evolution will eventually take care of reality deniers. Treating _all_ programming as if only synchronous, sequential data manipulation is the only thing that matters is the past of programming. We need to think about the future of programming.

Assuming that centralized is better than decentralized is an approach that only addresses a narrow band of reality. Computers (better: Reprogrammable Macines, RMs) can address many layers of reality. Using programming languages born for only a single, narrow band of reality makes dealing with other layers much more complicated, and introduces accidental complexity and wasted effort.  Stuff like 55,000,000 LOC operating systems and MPI are not appropriate for a lot of layers of reality. It's OK to drill down on one domain and build tools and frameworks for that domain, but, it's not OK to blindly assume that those same tools relate to 95% of other domains that RMs could be applied to. It appears to me that "computer science" is attempting to force the use of inappropriate tools and techniques onto all of programming instead of sticking to it's own knitting.

Where did "callback hell" come from? The mis-application of data manipulation languages to a different problem domain. Where did "async/await" come from? Same place. Harel solved this problem better some 40 years ago for a different domain (Statecharts are applicable to reactive problems, but not applicable to data manipulation problems).

---
