
OpenMPI -              864,000 LOC
MPICH -                  593,000 LOC
Ubuntu Linux = 30,000,000 LOC

Very roughly, the MPI abstraction - a convenience specifically intended for number crunching - is about 30,600,000 LOC.

The first multi-tasking kernel I studied was on the order of 50 LOC of assembler (atop of machines that needed many fewer transistors than what we use today).

Sutherland's Sketchpad is believed to have been about 30,000 LOC of assembler (on even more pathetic hardware).

The MPI abstraction is 30,000,000 / 30,000 = 1,000 times the size of Sketchpad and 600,000 times the size of the kernel above. Obviously Sketchpad and that kernel are much less capable than programs based on MPI, but it might be worth considering whether the size differences justify the cost of the abstractions.

Purer than pure functional programming can be seen in Sector Lisp - 436 bytes in assembler, 354 lines of assembler. The above is 84,000 times larger. The difference is tax for the misapplication of the functional programming paradigm.

I'm not interested in data crunching and am more interested in control flow issues (e.g. asynchronous parallelism instead of just synchronous concurrency). From that perspective, the currently popular programming languages and operating systems and frameworks are not worth it. Since I'm ignorant of big data issues, my opinion on whether the size difference is worth it for number crunching should be ignored.

OTOH, I think that computers (better: Reprogrammable Machines, RMs) can do much more than just data crunching. Trying to force-fit current languages and operating systems onto other domains - way beyond those that easily fall into the synchronous, sequential realm - is a death march.

The way I see it, the last 50 years of "progress" fits into just one of the little circles, labelled "app", on my diagrams. We've made essentially no progress on addressing the problems of other domains other than creating more epicycles on top of unsuitable paradigms and languages. To me the "async/await" problem was solved better by [Harel's Statecharts](https://guitarvydas.github.io/2023/11/27/Statecharts-Papers-We-Love-Video.html) some 40 years ago. Harel even showed how to solve the "state explosion" problem - something that might inspire solutions to our current huge software issues. The "problem" with Statecharts is that they are better expressed using diagrams as syntax (DaS). That was a problem back then, it is no longer a problem. It's easy to parse diagrams today. One wonders if computability theorists should extend their domain to include diagrams?

From my perspective, the 21st century is about solving problems of decentralization (as opposed to the centralized problems of the 20th century), no matter how inconvenient that reality is. Kagi.com is using 0D principles (I call it PBP, now (Parts Based Programming)) and they report more flexibility and easier manipulation of software. Their problem domain goes well beyond the kind of domains the giants of yesteryear were addressing. They could be using modern programming languages and techniques, but the PBP approach appears to be better.

I would say that the word "programming" has been deformed to mean notation worship, instead of figuring out how to deal with RMs. 


---


I equate the words "abstraction" and "framework" with the old word "epicycle".

Epicycles in Ptolemaic cosmology in Galileo's time = 80 (i.e. too many, this should have been a "tell" that something deeper was needed)