xyzzy  [7:11 AM]  

> I think the inability to express sequence diagrams / state machines via programing constructs directly in code is the main reason why large codebases are unmanageable. AI is largely going to multiply this problem a 100 fold.  
  
> A simpler way to do this with existing technology is  
  
> 1. Use a message bus  
> 2. Write functions that talk to message bus  
> 3. All functions without exception must talk to the message bus. No function calls except for the most trivial of ones. All callbacks push to the message bus.  
  
> Let me call this approach function pipes. Ideally visual node styles also work similarly from an execution perspective, in practice I find it becomes too complex to deal with. A folder of files is much easier to deal with and edit.  
  
> ZeroMQ provides a request / reply apart from publish subscribe. So I think this technique should be easier to bootstrap.  
100% logging is ensured because of the message bus.  
  
> To make folder organization easier, folder name ~ message bus topic  
So that way you can always pinpoint all listeners to a message bug topic.  
  
> I asked AI to create a small demo app with this architecture. Seems to work fine. It's a spreadsheet + MD editor. (edited)

I definitely agree that lack of sequence diagrams / state machines is a problem. Yet, I think that the problem of code bloat and unmanageability goes much deeper.

a) Are you aware of Harel's "Come Let's Play"? Harel created Statecharts, then went on to create scenario-based programming (sequence diagrams afaict).
b) I think that calling the approach "pipes" will lead to confusion. This approach is just "message-passing". The name "pipes" has already been taken.
c) I tend to think that code bloat is due to something I call "one language to rule them all syndrome". Grace Hopper called it "we've always done it this way". In my view, we've been piling everything and the kitchen sink into a single paradigm, stretching the paradigm way out of its sweet spot and causing exponential bloat (the equivalent to "state explosion" in state machine lingo). I consider Sector Lisp to be the epitome of "functional programming" (better even than Lisp 1.5 - Tunney emphasizes assembler tricks, but I think that Sector Lisp's economy of size is due to other, more important, factors (like pure functional programming - no assignment, no heaps)). We've been forcing out-of-band concepts into the functional (function based) paradigm for 50+ years, like assignment, heaps, memory sharing, etc, and spinning off different, but essentially the same, programming languages (all of which do not achieve the expressibility of machine code). That stuff doesn't honour the functional paradigm and should have been treated with completely different paradigms and notations. UNIX showed us how to compose programs using different paradigms (languages), but fell short by offering up a text-based shell that ignores issues like multiple input/output ports, fan-out, etc.
d) A flat message bus will collapse under its own weight as we try to address bigger and bigger problems, i.e. "state explosion". Likewise pub/sub will cause accidental complexity and severe hand-wringing. Harel's Statecharts and UNIX processes plus recursive scripts show ways out of this problem, i.e. hierarchies of isolated components. I.E. not just one bus, but a hierarchy of buses, punting detail successively down to lower levels. IMO, the concept of a "bus" is too ad hoc, I like the concept of "wires" better.
e) State machines can cause bloat, too, when used in "one language to rule them all" mode.  In my mind a system of communicating state machines is best described by recursive node-and-wire diagrams. Novices attempt to draw node-and-wire diagrams for computational concepts like using "+" boxes to draw "a = b + c". Drawing "+" boxes is bloat. Writing "a = b + c" is more economical when written as text. Communicating state machines should only be used to express concepts that don't fit into the function-based paradigm, e.g. "control flow" (which is a mess in our current function-based languages).
