# PBP Fundamental - Everything is a Black Box Part
In Parts Based Programming, everything is a Part (or a packet of data sent between Parts, that I call a _mevent_ ("message event"))

Nothing that can be built as a stand alone Part, gets hard-wired into the language or the base kernel. The only things that a PBP kernel implements are
- the concept of Container Parts (parts the are little network compositions of other Parts)
- the concept of Leaf Parts (completely opaque Parts that perform some action and can be characterized from the outside by describing their inputs and outputs using timing diagrams.
- The concept of wires and mevent mapping - an output event consists of a pair `{ oport, datum }` and an input mevent is described the same way `{ iport, datum }`, where `iport` and `oport` are tags of some sort and `datum` is just an opaque blob of binary data. A parent Container contains a set of direct child instances and a set of wires between the parts (or to/from itself). The parent Container performs all mevent mapping. Children cannot refer to their siblings nor parents and can only refer to their own input and output queues. To send a mevent, a child enqueues the mevent onto its own output queue with a tag. Once the child terminates one step of operation, the child's parent Container routes the mevent to other direct children (or to/from itself) by mapping the `oport` tag to an appropriate `iport` tag for each receiver of the mevent (fan-out is allowed - a single mevent can be sent to multiple receivers at the same time) in accordance to wires in the parent Container's wiring table. This reduces (eliminates?) namespacing problems - children can have the same names with different meanings on their own ports, and the parent Container maps between two ports using its own wiring information, thereby removing name clashes. The parent's wiring table determines routing, routing information / destination names must not be hard-wired into children part's code. Since children can _only_ refer to their own output ports, parent Containers are free to route mevent flows as they wish. Hence, Parts are completely isolated from one another and are re-usable in completely different circuits / little networks. This is equivalent to "referential transparency" in the functional paradigm, but, also allows Parts to have multiple ports (instead of just one input and just one output). Ports do not determine control flow. This is pure data flow. A Part is "ready to run" if it has any mevents on its input queue. When a Part consumes the front item on its queue, it must "run to completion" before ingesting further inputs from its input queue. Running to completion does not mean doing _everything_ with the input that needs to be done, it might be that it does one step of an action, then _yields_ back to the dispatcher. Running to completion is meant to be a quick "get in and get out" operation, akin to a low level hardware I/O port, where the minimal amount of work is performed in reaction to an input (say, buffering the input, then rearming itself to wait for more inputs).

