# Example - Timer

In PBP, a Timer is a Part, whereas in most modern programming languages, timers need to be kludged into the language.

For example, in Python, timers appear as parameterized function calls, where one of the parameters can be an asynchronous callback.

In PBP, a timer is simply a box with several input and output ports.

What should the input ports be? Something like:
- start
- stop
- set time
- set repeat.

What should the output ports be? Something like:
- timeout
- error.

If we imagine that the timer is physically distant from the requestor, e.g. more than 1nm away, then it is possible to imagine an edge case like:
- timer sends `timeout`
- requestor sends `stop` before receiving the timeout mevent
	- so, after the requestor send a `stop` command, it might still receive one `timeout` mevent. That's just due to reality. A simple filter using a state machine in the requestor can handle this. 
	- Does the requestor need to communicate with the simple state machine filter in an atomic manner?
		- That would be the easiest implementation. Hardware uses interrupt masking to implement this exact kind of thing.
		- It is possible to design solutions to this problem using various kinds of handshakes.
		- This problem exists regardless of whether you use the functional paradigm and conventional programming languages. Functional programming is implicitly synchronous and appears to hide the fact that this happens by inserting atomic synchronization at every step (i.e. overkill). This problem is not "synchronous" at the low levels - ever - so, implementors of timer libraries / language features need to use locking, semaphores, etc. under the hood to give the appearance that the problem can be ignored at the language level. I am of the opinion that it is better to leave problems like this to high level software architects instead of creating numerous little special-case edge-case handlers hidden in the bowels of programming languages. Some projects might present different, project specific ways to handle such cases. If the design decision has already been made by a language implementor, then it would be impossible to capitalize on the peculiarities of any problem space. With a system that allows recursive layering of code, the problem can be elided for general use anyway, but, when necessary, programmers could dig down into the implementation and examine and tweak the actual implementation. In fact, with a reasonable Parts-based design, they could simply pull out a specific Part and replace it with another Part that is port-compatible. IMO, it is better to devise a notation that allows handling the problem _and_ allows eliding the solution in layers. Same tools / notations, so, when necessary programmers can decide to change the implementation. And, programmers can choose to include stock solutions - chosen from a palette of Parts - in their project, or not. `Import` statements and `package managers` are leaning in this direction, but present the solutions in ways that are too complicated and clumsy and error-prone.

