https://github.com/guitarvydas/pbp-pong/tree/atari

I've created a repository for pbp-pong. The AndGate tester is on branch `atari` (as per the above url).

Because of our timezone differences, I have pushed this "as is" to get the code to you at a reasonable time.

The structure is all there, but, if you run `@make` you get a Python error in the kernel. This looks like some silly glitch I introduced due to the way I've cloned stuff, but, it's early in the morning and I don't immediately see what's wrong. I'll probably have it fixed later in my day, but that will be too late in your day. So, I'm sending this "as is", to give you something to look at.

# Bottom Up
At the lowest level of the design, is the AndGate part.

Open `pong.drawio` (in drawio) and you should see a single part wired up how I'd said last night.

Open `andgate.py` in a programmer's text editor and you should see the code for that part. Like I said, at this point, the code looks like overkill for a simple _and_ operation, but, as the design grows, the code will seem more reasonable.

To build the thing, you call `./@make` (which results in the error as described above). `./@make` sets up some environment variables using `./@defc` then calls the workhorse `./@makec`. Look only at `@makec` - the other stuff is just house-keeping and contains too much generalized detail to understand at this point.

At line 13, `node` is called to convert the `pong.drawio` file into `pong.drawio.json`. This step basically culls out the graphics-only information (about 95% of `pong.drawio`) and leaves only the semantically interesting stuff in JSON format, which can be loaded by Python (or Javascript, or any code that knows how to read JSON).

At line 14, the line that begins with `python ...`, the diagram is executed. It runs `main.py` which loads `andgate.py` and registers it as a pbp part, then runs the diagram code by making a couple of kernel calls.

# Top Down

I've stuck urls for Atari's original schematics in `./schematics/url.md`.

That's what I'm going to want duplicated in `pong.drawio`. I wish I knew how to get an LLM to rough it all in - there are many parts and a lot of wires. The default will be to simply re-draw every bit of the schematic in `pong.drawio` manually.

The sections at the top-left of the schematic - the uncolourized crystal timer, the Horizontal Sync and Vertical Sync sections - are related to how TV worked in 1972. We'll probably just skip all of that and stub it out with 2 black boxes.

