> I can see the argument that locking into implementation constraints too early may shape the design space more than we realize

Actually, it's worse than "implementation constraints". Adopting the synchronous / sequential paradigm as a substrate - as most current PLs do - is a _design_ constraint, not just an implementation constraint.

Asynchronicity, parallelism, async interrupts cannot be expressed by the synchronous / sequential paradigm. The best you can do is to create "reactors" that are sync / seq, but, you can't reason about nor express actual asynchronicity. 

It appears to me that many programmers conflate "concurrency" with "parallelism". This is not actually true. Concurrency is synchronous. Parallelism is asynchronous.

> for now , I am mainly interested in understanding the model and seeing how the abstractions evolve as complexity increases

The abstraction mechanism is to provide for total isolation, something which the synchronous / sequential (functional) paradigm cannot accomplish.

With functional composition, you make programs bigger by making more functions. Essentially more functions on a flat plane - 2D.

With PBP, you make programs bigger by going 3D. Recursive layers. That's what Container parts are. If you (the Architect) make each layer "simple", then a big program becomes understandable in a piece-wise manner (divide and conquer). The key is to eliminate all coupling between parts, then you can compose them in a layered (3D) manner. Functions impose coupling, message-passing loosens the coupling.
