---

---

[more information](https://discord.com/channels/@me/1518718348387680266/1518907955347591178)

---

1. Yes, basically main.py + kernel0d.py interpret the diagram. There are 2 kinds of parts: Container and Leaf. A Container is a tab on a drawio diagram. A Leaf is code in the host language (Python in this case). Just to confuse things, I actually _do_ generate Python code sometimes, but that isn't done here (`kernel0d.py` itself is drawn as a diagram - the diagram is the "compiler" which generates Python code which gets run by the Python system. The kernel is a separate project which generates `kernel0d.py` (and javascript and common lisp all at once). The generated kernel code is used in other projects, like this one. I can show you that later, if interested, but, for now, let's just keep it simple.
    
2. aside: `kernel0d.py` actually implements a multi-tasking kernel in the same way that `*NIX` does. With a lot less code than a full-blown `*NIX` operating system. Multi-tasking only needs about 1 page of code (in assembler). When you strip away all of the extra fluff, you get a simple Python program... Unlike `*NIX`, this kernel doesn't handle timer interrupts, so, I guess PBP might be said to implement "green threads". [Again, ignore what I just said - too much information for now :-)].

---

1. AND gate executing correctly means that we can eyeball the output and see the correct outputs. Are you suggesting that the tester checks the output automatically? Maybe that's the difference? The fire-and-forget mentality says that once we get andgate.py working correctly, it will never need to be changed or updated. So, maybe I'm subconsciously thinking that building an automated test might be overkill for something this small. OTOH, automated test for higher levels will definitely be of interest. I dunno.
    
2. For now, I think that targeting 80% is good enough. I haven't thought about building something more elaborate for registration. Just getting this all to work will give ideas on how to improve the process. The big pushup is to simply get the bare minimum to work. I can touch-type, so I tend to overlook bits of manual labour...
    
3. Sequences and ordering. That's another big step - being able to "reason about" sequencing and ordering. The current bevy of programming languages tend to ignore that detail and make it really hard to get that kind of thing right (lots of manually handled state, etc.)
---

1. One tab per IC. For now. Once that works, we can work back upwards and discover ways to abstract groups of chips into bigger semantic parts. I expect this very low-level Atari schematic implementation to run very slowly at first, then we will get ideas on what to abstract and make faster. The hard part of any project is to come up with a Design. That's where I was going wrong with my earlier attempts - I was trying to come up with a Design. OTOH, the Atari Design is known to work - we should steal it at first, then revamp it to work in a more modern way. Stealing the Design should help speed development of this up. In general, I think that it is wasteful to build super low-level parts like andgate.py, but, doing that allows us to steal Atari's Design, without expending too much brain power on that. Given that a Design already exists, it is better to just steal it and then modify it, rather than prematurely redesigning it.
    
2. 5. Re. the current bug. Something is wrong with the instantiation of the Leaf part andgate.py. It should get a fresh copy of an ė (spelled "Eh" in ASCII) class (in pbp/kernel/kernel0d.py) which includes `inq` and `outq`. When I come back, I'm going to stare at the `def instantiate (...)` method and begin tracking down why the Eh bit is missing. I probably copied something from some old project and have one of the args wrong. Python does JIT type checking, not AOT type checking, so it doesn't catch my silliness until runtime. ...pondering...

---

6. I've been trying to explain my thinking during top-down/bottom-up design, and have been mostly unsuccessful. I'm also writing a book, now. I tried to just capture my thought process and write a diary of how I built, iteratively, the 5 Whys example (using 2 instances of an LLM part plus one Python part). If you wish to indulge in reading TL;DR stuff, then the chapter "Example FDD Workflow - The Five Whys Example" might be of interest (or maybe not :-). I think that I made that chapter free to view in the sample (assuming that I pushed all of the right buttons). [FDD book](https://leanpub.com/failuredrivendevelopment "FDD book
    (https://leanpub.com/failuredrivendevelopment)"). As far as I can tell, you need to download the *sample* PDF file.
---

1. For now, Containers are only orchestration and their "state" is contained in any Leaf parts they use (Containers are recursively defined, so they might contain other Containers and somewhere near the bottom are the Leaf parts). It's unclear to me that adding state to Containers (beyond using Leaf parts) is useful at this stage. If you hit on a use-case for this, let me know.
    
2. My hope is that we reach a point where I don't have to write code nor draw diagrams for this. OTOH, this is so off-the-beaten-path that I don't know if this can happen. I stand to learn from this exercise. I will do my best to keep explaining and kibitzing until it becomes unnecessary (if ever). Your observations about how you understand this stuff are quite helpful.
---

I found the problem in andgate.py. `zd.send(...)` requires an Eh instead of an AndGate as its first argument. I pushed the fix. Now the output is a JSON array of two mevents (key/value pairs) - the output port "" gets "" as its value - twice. Once for each `inject` (inputs to "A" and "B"). Is that what should be expected? I think so, but having worked on electronics, I actually expected one continuous signal out. When thinking in the event-driven domain, this answer (2 outputs) makes total sense. I guess it could be optimized to only output a mevent when the output state changes. But, for now, this is good enough without optimization. Aside: my type error could have been caught earlier with an AOT type checker, like what we have embedded in most programming languages today. I'm not sure that the ROI justifies 50+ years of development to check for this case. It only took me minutes to figure out what the problem was. Type checkers heavily influence the way you are allowed to think about code. I'm not sure that the restrictions imposed by type checkers are worth the trouble. PBP arises from the freedom of thought when you don't have to shove every idea through a synchronous / sequential paradigm first... (The thesis of the FDD book is that the way we write programs today is "Production Engineering". Something to do only _after_ a good design has been settled upon. Coming up with a good design is hampered by premature "production engineering" thinking).

---
1. Actually, it's worse than "implementation constraints". Adopting the synchronous / sequential paradigm as a substrate - as most current PLs do - is a _design_ constraint, not just an implementation constraint. Asynchronicity, parallelism, async interrupts cannot be expressed by the synchronous / sequential paradigm. The best you can do is to create "reactors" that are sync / seq, but, you can't reason about nor express actual asynchronicity. It appears to me that many programmers conflate "concurrency" with "parallelism". This is not actually true. Concurrency is synchronous. Parallelism is asynchronous.
    
2. The abstraction mechanism is to provide for total isolation, something which the synchronous / sequential (functional) paradigm cannot accomplish. With functional composition, you make programs bigger by making more functions. Essentially more functions on a flat plane - 2D. With PBP, you make programs bigger by going 3D. Recursive layers. That's what Container parts are. If you (the Architect) make each layer "simple", then a big program becomes understandable in a piece-wise manner (divide and conquer). The key is to eliminate all coupling between parts so that you can compose them in a layered (3D) manner. Functions impose coupling, message-passing loosens the coupling.
---

Containers: I imagine that we want to mimic behavioral equivalence for now. I imagine that this will be an iterative process and that we can't accurately predict how it's going to evolve after we get behavioral equivalence. Ideas will suggest themselves as we move along. First goal: direct equivalence mimicking behaviour of the original circuit. Later goals: to be discovered.

---

