From my perspective, the two languages have different goals, while their syntaxes are sufficiently similar as to make porting not very difficult (especially with PEG based parser technologies and text-to-text manipulations). K&R C was essentially a transpiler - you poured C source code into one end and got asm source code out the other. It did a bit of type checking to help catch clumsy errors. ANSI C, though, is an attempt to make the same syntax work across many different CPU architectures, with different bit sizes, different endian-ness, etc. And, especially with a lot tighter, more elaborate and complicated type checking. UNIX was built without any of that complicated assistance, Sutherland's Sketchpad was built without any of that complicated assistance. To me, K&R C is about getting things done, whereas ANSI C is about portability. I would argue that the trade-off wasn't worth all of the time and effort that was spent on it. We now have bloated memory sizes due to our insistence on writing code in only a function-based (pseudo-functional) manner, where we might have been looking at how to program these machines in different ways (statecharts, relational, factbase rewriting, forth, building little languages for each target architecture, etc., etc.). Building little languages was deemed to be very hard and costly, so we went down the path of piling everything and kitchen sink into a base substrate ("function-based", synchronous, sequential). Things have changed, but we keep holding on to the old-fashioned way of programming, because "we've always done it this way". Aside: various compiler technologies (e.g. Cordy's Orthogonal Code Generator) made it easy to write decision trees based on how to port code depending on target architecture instead of warping every language into the pseudo-functional mold.