https://wolfram.schneider.org/bsd/7thEdManVol2/ctour/ctour.html

The Thompson cc article seems to document a second version of cc, and how he optimized it and made it better than the first version.

Personally, I like to start by understanding the simple, first version of anything as motivation. Simple, but unoptimized, usually makes it easier to understand the basic ideas.

Do you know if the previous version of cc was documented? That might be a better read at first. Probably a version of cc from V4, V5, V6.

The issues at the time included trying to figure out how to create languages (and assemblers) that could do the whole job in just one pass without re-reading the whole input source more than once. Hard disks were expensive and slow, so it seemed necessary to avoid re-reading code. UNIX pipes tried to create "files" in memory without spilling them to disks (and drums / whatever).

I'll see if I can draw a picture of the `cc` pipeline as I understand it.

---

The UNIX mentality brought in the idea of breaking a problem down into small pieces and to pipe the pieces together. "Do one thing well". C compilation was broken down into (1) preprocessor app to grok C "macros" and expand them into simpler text (directives were replaced by blank lines, macros were expanded into big blobs of C code containing no more macros in them, #includes were expanded by inserting the included code inline) (2) compiler app for C-without-macros (simpler) that emitted assembler code. Then (3) assembler app (`as`) that inhaled the generated assembler text and produced `.o` (the binary format used was a precursor to ELF). Then (4) a loader app `ld` that joined `.o`s together and tried to resolve references to functions and data. This could produce other `.o`s or runnable binaries. UNIX didn't have loader. When given a binary with the correct "magic number" at the front, UNIX would simply drop the binary into memory and run it. Other O/S (and later versions of UNIX and Linux) subsumed much of the `ld` loader functionality and would fixup `.o`s before trying to run the code. (4a) There was a way to bundle `.o` together into archive files, if that seemed appropriate (`ar`). `ld` knew how to unbundle archive files and to treat the innards as separate `.o`s.  At a higher level `cpp`, `cc` and `as` are thought of as one app, so the compiler looks like it breathes in C source code and exhales binary.