The book Failure Drive Design is meant to illustrate how to re-balance the software development process.

I think that all of our modern programming languages are geared towards Production Engineering while pushing Design Engineering aside.

As a result I think that our development workflow takes too long and avoids the responsibility of the coming up with good software designs resulting in fragile code. Instead of spending time on designs, we tend to rely on Continuous Delivery and a slow loop of waiting for customer suggestions to improve the design of our software products.

We need to spiral in towards a design more quickly and weed out mediocre designs before shipping anything. Failure is the best way to learn. The book illustrates a way to create software in a kind of leanpub manner - explore the target domain early, prototype often. Try out ideas and cherry pick the best ones to spend time on for putting into production.

To do this kind of thing rapidly, we need software languages and tools that make it easy to throw away all of our work and start again. After assembler, one of my first real programming languages was Lisp, the 1.5 flavour. It had a REPL, I learned to build programs in a top-down and bottom-up manner. I felt that I knew what I wanted to achieve at the top level and would strive towards it by building little snippets of code at the bottom level. I would quickly discover which ideas were failures and would simply rewrite the code and try again, inching closer to the goal each time. Often, my exploration of the domain with little snippets of code would show that I needed to change my mind about my top-level goals. My "back to the drawing board" attitude incorporated the notion of changing my mind into the workflow. I didn't spend hours coming up with tight type systems at first - In the process of exploring, I wrote very little code and felt no compunction to keep the code. The stuff I learned was kept in my head, not in my code snippets. 

I've seen the reverse workflow, too. We spent several man-years building a tool. The first time we got to see it running, we immediately spotted something we wanted to change. That was two years in, and the coders refused to make our changes because they had made detailed, niggly decisions about the design two years ago that would be hard to change without discarding a lot of hard-won code. So, we were forced to go ahead with what we had, even though we knew that it should have been better.

- REPL
- Unix command line is the IDE with a built-in REPL,
- PLs are caveman approaches to solving the IDE issue. In the 1960s, we were forced by economics to use text as our interface to computers and by the lure of using something we already had - mathematical notation - instead of inventing a new notation for these new-fangled computer things. As a result of these choices, we are now faced with mountains of technical debt and fragile code.