The functional scaffolding chain is considered to be a solution to general-purpose programming, but, I don't see it that way.

The functional paradigm vector is an implicit arrow aimed at the heart of the classical physics domain, expressed in functional notation. We've been forcing anti-functional concepts into the paradigm, like "re-assignment" thinking that we were broadening the generality of the notation, but, instead we got something which is bloated (by my standards) and is looping back to edicts about how to program in the pure functional which are - slowly - undoing the forced-in concepts.

As soon as "C" made it popular to think that _every_ subroutine must use a functional calling convention, we stopped noticing that other valid ideas and valid conventions could be useful. I guess we over-narrowed our focus and chipped away at the function-based notation trying to broaden it's scope instead of simply using different notations beside the functional domain.

Lisp 1.5 is good enough to express functional solutions to problems, but, it contained some non-AOT concepts (like dynamic binding). We threw out dynamic binding and replaced it with static scoping, but, today we have looped back to JIT, in effect putting dynamicness back into the notation after having worked so hard to remove it.

Early languages had small footprints. It seems to me that we've massively increased PL footprints but didn't stop to measure whether we really got bang for the buck and whether our additions were "worth it".

Lisp 1.5 has been upgraded to a more modern version: Sector Lisp. Sector Lisp's footprint is only 436 bytes. Sector Lisp does not allow re-assignment, nor does it use heaps. I believe that such details allow Sector Lisp to stay small relative to other (bloated) languages in use today.

The type-checking point is a justification of my feeling that today's programming languages have become bloated. Early languages without type-checking were orders of magnitude smaller. Type-checking has polluted our notations with annotations that are needed only for the type checkers. Early innovations like Sketchpad, etc., didn't need to use type checking, so why do we even believe that type-checking is necessary? Is type checking forced upon us due to our use of textual notation? Early languages, like Tiny Basic, didn't prescribe type checking. We needed to add type checking because we believed that we needed general purpose languages and that the only way to build bigger programs was to use general purpose languages stretched to handle every problem domain, instead of finding ways to use multiple special purpose notations. [I think that research into the size of early tools can help strengthen this argument. How big was Sketchpad, in bytes? how big was Unix V1? TurboPascal? Lisp 1.5? Visicalc?]

This is not to say that we don't need concepts like re-assignment, heaps, state and all of that other stuff. We need it, but, I think that forcing those concepts into a single "one language to rule them all" has caused unexpected gotchas and exponentially increasing footprints.
