1. "basically the same" - they are all based on the sequential/synchronous paradigm. This paradigm is at the core of all of these languages an permeates all language decisions. None of these languages allows the expression of async (they can express reactive nodes in an async system, but they can't express the actual open async system). No matter what doo-dads each language provides, they are all the same at the core - sync. It's like putting lipstick on a pig. When we allowed ourselves to not be bound by the sequential / synchronous mindset, we came up with variations that broke new ground, like Prolog, Forth, etc. The seq / sync mindset has polluted all modern language design and now we are faced with gotchas like "callback hell" - which was band-aided by inventing even more complex sync constructs. We've painted ourselves into a corner and pushing further along these lines only pushes us further into the corner.
2. "Functional" - as soon as you write a function that calls another function, you have committed to synchronous control flow. On paper, where laws of physics don't apply to the notation, this works fine (as a paradigm, as notational simplification), but, when mapped to real, physical hardware like a computer, this brings unexpected gotchas. We've compounded the gotchas by choosing to use memory sharing as the communication mechanism between units of software. We had the choice at the beginning - we could have imagined building computers using multiple CPUs, but, we let the economics of the early days push us towards the other choice - single CPUs and shared memory and time-sharing.
3. BFT - I'm referring to pBFT. I see it as the enabling tech for blockchain and bitcoin. I believe that the pBFT paper won a Turing award [please fact check]. The pBFT concept - a dual concept, encryption _plus_ state machines - is what Im referring to. Bitcoin is an offshoot and "stands on the shoulders" of this work. The "problem" with pBFT is that is forces the state-machine part to be expressed in the same sequential / synchronous notation that the encryption part is expressed in. That made the work harder than necessary, the brain power expended on doing all of this extra work could have been allocated differently.
4. 5 year olds are taught to learn motor skills and thinking skills that allow asynchronous concurrency. They learn how to get the left hand to play a different set of notes than the right hand plays - at the _same_ time, without making the separate parts sequential. They learn about hard realtime - notes must be played at exactly the right time. They get an intuition of how to deal with this. They learn a notation that expresses what they need to play and the relative (hard realtime) timing. Some notes are played longer than others - this is also captured by the notation in a succinct manner. Our notations for software makes all of this more complicated in a way that requires years of university level study and PhDs, etc. The 5-year olds' intuition indicates that this is all really simpler than the complicated stuff we have turned it into. We have lost the simplicity by over-concentrating on how to analyze and formalize the concepts. While it is valuable to analyze the concepts, over-emphasizing analysis has affected our ability to express the concepts in simpler ways. Programming has become overly concerned with analysis instead of simple expression. There should be a mapping between simple notation and analysis-ready notation, instead of polluting of simple notation with consideration mostly aimed at analysis.

article's claim: neither claim is more important than the other. Maybe it's that we need a wholistic approach. Drilling down deeply on single aspects of the problem domain has blinded us from seeing the whole and from honestly evaluating our progress. In early compiler-building days, it was considered laughable to spend mega-bytes of RAM for allowing compilers to be built in a functional manner. The gaming industry, especially the people on the Handmade Network, point out that our current programming languages are not very good at creating games any more [example: Muratori's "The Big OOPS"]. Forth Haiku shows that 2 lines of code can control a GPU as well as 100 lines of GLSL / Javascript. Generalizing Forth Haiku would probably lead to a humungous mess and exponential growth of code, which should be a _tell_ that our approach of trying to generalize everything is not the right idea. I see the phrase "standing on the shoulders of giants" to be directly related to the phrase "doing the same thing over and over again, expecting different results". The "giants" were solving single-CPU, synchronous, sequential problems. The problem domains of the 21st century go well beyond single-CPUs and sequentialism and implicit synchrony. Pasting bandaids onto the solutions of the 20th century is not letting us move forward into the 21st century.
