re. The Turing Award. The award isn't important enough. I wish only to point out the influence of work and that it clearly shows the "standing on the shoulders of giants" approach, where a much simpler application of state machines - or maybe better, Harel's Statecharts - would have solved the same part of the problem without all of the extra fuss. In fact, Harel followed his statechart paper with a micro-semantics paper that showed how to map statecharts onto an analytical framework. That could have been used. Of course, Harel's analysis alters the statechart concept by forcing sequentiality onto it, thereby making the mapping useless for actual use in live, real-life, asynchronous systems (something I discovered early on). The asynchronous paralellism of Statecharts was converted into synchronous concurrency making it useless for dealing with async parallelism.

Yes, the link between sync and over-emphasis on analysis is something that I intuit - feel in my gut - and find it difficult to draw out of me in (sequential) words.

- SM as diagram vs. Python. In addition to the Forth Haiku argument, in this video I show a simple 3-state state machine that transpiles to approximately 60 lines of Python. A seasoned Python-er could easily chop the number of lines down, but, the diagram carries visual information that is obfuscated by the Python based version.

- is there proof that type-checking helps? We've been wringing our hands improving it for decades, but I not that Sketchpad, Unix v1, TurboPascal, Lisp 1.5, VisiCalc, etc. were created without much (or any) automated type checking. We're not measuring our "improvements" against what worked in the past. We seem to blindly accept that type-checking, using mega-bytes of memory instead of kilo-bytes of memory, etc. are necessary and helpful. [fact-check - are there any studies that compare the current approach to the approaches used in the past? In this video, https://www.infoq.com/presentations/dynamic-static-typing/, Smallshire states that type-checking catches only 3% of real errors - hardly significant, if true we should be studying other ways to adjust our programming workflow]