  
  

On Sun, Jun 28, 2026 at 7:37 AM Paul Tarvydas <[paultarvydas@gmail.com](mailto:paultarvydas@gmail.com)> wrote:  

> > Coherence is not needed most of the time. Premature coherence gives rise to inefficiency and overkill.

> Some form of coherence is needed, but there are weaker and stronger forms of coherence.

"Coherence often means that different parts of a system maintain a consistent view."

My perception is that the prevalent view of coherence (e.g. cache coherence) is too fine-grained for use in distributed systems.

Software architects should design-in coherence only when needed, i.e. through protocols and explicit synchronization. My perception is that our hardware and software insists on providing cache coherence at the expense of efficiency.

> > Agreed. Maybe I'm reading more into what you've written than what you intended, but ... I perceive that our current trend of borrowing from the "functional programming" paradigm (starting with something like C) and wanting to believe that "everything is a computation" is a death march or, at best, a way to exponentially increase accidental complexity.

>Call-return is awkward when it comes to modeling interaction. There are workarounds, such as multi-agent session types, monadic effects, delimited continuations. 


>But something like Yves Lafont's Interaction Calculus (~1990) offers a more explicit foundation for modeling interactive, parallel, distributed systems than 

Thanks. I need to learn more about that.

>
>Alonzo Church's Lambda Calculus (~1930).

> > Our use of functions for programming languages is just a convenience. It's a spherical cow that ignores asynchronicity, time and ordering to make some things simpler, but, it cannot - by definition - deal with the totality of Reality.

> The closest 'languages' to reality are higher-dimensional cellular automata that have some notions of symmetry aligned to physics, e.g. conservation of 'mass' and 'energy'. They are, simultaneously, the very worst languages to reason about and program in. They make for fun toys, though.

  

>Ultimately, we're responsible for the behavior of our programs. We cannot reason about the behavior of the totality of reality. Thus, there will always be a practical boundary, and some indirection, between program logic and reality. And that boundary will always be based on some decisions of convenience: of reasoning, of composition, of deployment. 


>Convenience is not something to scoff at. Unless you want to 'program' via physics simulations.
...
> But our PLs could support a more-flexible lower-bound on abstraction.

I believe that the biggest missing ingredient in our programming languages is the notion of "time" (ordering, sequencing). It can be manually expressed in our languages, but, that's not the same as using a notation that treats it as a first-class concept.

> Instead of general purpose application programming languages, where users primarily describe runtime behavior, we could design general purpose assembly languages, where users primarily describe an executable specification. Staged programming, where the output can be any heterogeneous mix of x86 machine code, Kubernetes configurations, hardware description etc.. We can feasibly build our towers of abstraction while simultaneously digging out a deeper basement of abstraction.

  

> Application languages tend to set a lower bound on abstraction that's too high for some problems and too low for others. This results in awkward scenarios where we need different languages for different problems.

  

>A general purpose assembly language won't provide the tools for "composing snippets of code tuned for each sub-domain", but it should provide an environment where such tools - higher-order, modular, adaptable, extensible, robust 'assembly macros' - can be effectively built. There's still quite a gap between, say, Kahn process networks and x86 machine code. A general-purpose assembly would force you to fill that gap explicitly. But you'd never be blocked by someone else's compiler, since you'd control your compiler within the language.  

> > Notation is important - language influences thought. 

> I agree. Even arithmetic was difficult to think about with Roman numerals. There are many notations yet undiscovered, and many discovered notations we haven't adequately exploited. Including Lafont's interaction nets and Harel's statecharts.

  



---

  
  


> > There is but only one race condition - when two events A and B arrive "simultaneously", if you can't tell in what order they arrived in, then it's a race condition. All of the other so-called race conditions are accidental complexities created by the use of an inappropriate substrate paradigm.

> Focusing on this assertion specifically. It seems biased or privileged to centralized computation. Events "arrived" where?

I'm not sure I understand this point. The idea of events arriving somewhere is biased by a decentralized perspective. I think that that bias towards centralization is something that we got away with in the 20th century but we must move towards a decentralized bias in the next century.

  

> An important race condition is that different observers may see the same event stream in different orders. ...

I agree.   

> This is mostly a problem for distributed systems. But modern CPUs operate at such a frequency that light is moving less than 10cm per clock cycle. Relativistic light cones are an issue even within a LAN. 

The "C" in CPU means Centralized. We've utilized notations for programming centralized CPUs to the point of overkill.


---

> The simplest resolution is to insist events, e.g. messages, are processed by only one component. 

That is indeed simple. But, from a decentralized perspective all you need to do is to ensure atomicity of event delivery to prevent interleaving of events in time. If one adopts an asynchronous event delivery method (fire-and-forget), then this kind of atomicity can be quite cheap for geographically close devices, e.g. inside a single computer vs. spread across continents.

>... A numbering sequence can help there.

Another method is to use queues or mailboxes with tagged events. One input queue and one output queue per component. Events are tagged with their port ids and enqueued, in order of arrival and generation, on those queues. It's not as fine-grained as using sequence numbers, but, it opens the door to many interesting, new architectures composed of asynchronous components, such as might be found in electronic schematics, like [Atari Pong, 1972]([https://www.reddit.com/r/EngineeringPorn/comments/ul49zt/the_original_pong_video_game_had_no_code_and_was/](https://www.reddit.com/r/EngineeringPorn/comments/ul49zt/the_original_pong_video_game_had_no_code_and_was/)) (I'm currently trying to convert that thinking into Parts Based Programming (PBP) software). I find that simply allowing Parts to have multiple inputs and multiple outputs and making Parts asynchronous leads to interesting ideas and architectures more quickly than thinking using overly-synchronous notations.

pt


  