let's add

- [tiny basic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tiny_BASIC) the canonical source code is in Vol. 1 of [DDJ](https://archive.org/details/dr_dobbs_journal_vol_01/page/n129/mode/1up)
- [Frits van der Wateren Lisp](https://github.com/guitarvydas/frits-van-der-wateren-lisp)
- [smallc](https://archive.org/details/dr_dobbs_journal_vol_05_201803) I learned what a compiler does by implementing this on a V7 UNIX on a PDP-11. All of the complication we've added to compilers since then are just improvements to this basic idea. The Dragon Book is just a way to make this basic idea "more efficient".

---

BNF and the more common successor properly called eBNF is a DSL for writing parsers. PEG and OhmJS use a syntax very much like that of eBNF. Traditional compiler-compiler tools like YACC are meant for specifying _languages_, whereas OhmJS can be viewed as a DSL for specifying _parsers_.

Before PEG, I used recursive descent, and S/SL. PEG just makes this so much easier, almost like using regexes in modern programming languages.

PEG's greatest contribution is the return to backtracking - banished in the 20th century due to a bias towards premature optimization. Backtracking makes it easier to describe parsers.

One of the first things I wrote in OhmJS (an improved PEG) was a DSL I call [RWR](https://github.com/guitarvydas/pbp-dev/blob/dev/t2t/doc/rwr/RWR%20Spec.pdf). Using OhmJS plus RWR, I built a small tool that I call T2T, which is part of a larger toolkit called [PBP](https://github.com/guitarvydas/pbp). 

With T2T (and the Ohm-editor grammar REPL) I can crank out custom little languages in minutes or hours. At this time, I transmogrify the little languages into running Python code, often as PBP components or as stand-alone Python code. I've also generated Javascript code, Common Lisp code and Odin code.

---

> I wrote up my own take on this: [Statecharts — Papers We Love video](https://guitarvydas.github.io/2023/11/27/Statecharts-Papers-We-Love-Video.html), a video of my reading of the original paper.

should be more like "I made a video of my reading of the original paper ..." without saying "I wrote up my own take"

---

Add James Cordy's Orthogonal Code Generator thesis. [include a reference to the original PhD / MSc thesis]. In it Cordy touches on techniques that look new today (like some of the concepts in BLC (Binary Lambda Calculus) [include reference to Tunney's BLC]), Holt's Data Descriptors [include reference to the original Data Descriptor paper] and creates a small DSL for creating portable code using decision trees (MISTs).

Data descriptors show how to utilize normalization to make code simpler to write.

--- 

Add Rebol [with a reference] and a successor project Altscript [with a reference].

Rebol is one of the first languages to have PEG parsing built into the language with the result that Sassenrath created very powerful libraries using only a small amount of code.

Altscript proposes a very interesting and very rich set of fundamental data types / atoms.