# Problem
I want code that I write once, but create different implementations later.

# (My) Solution
I think in terms of black boxes. Akin to ICs in an electronic circuit. Each IC is completely stand alone. It has inputs and it has outputs. Inputs arrive asynchronously, outputs are generated in reaction to inputs and placed on an output queue. The IC cannot define who receives the outputs, nor if there is only one receiver or many receivers. It can only generate output packets with data payloads and put them on its own output queue. It's owner (the motherboard, the enclosing circuit, the "Container") receives the queue of outputs and distributes/routes them as it wishes. The routing belongs to the Container, not to the child part. To change a circuit, you only need to change the wiring in the Container. Nothing in a Part (an IC) determines the final destination of a packet of data.

Keys: 
- input parameter lists are not enough, you need to specify output parameter lists, too
- each component - a "Part" in my vocabulary - has one (1) input queue and one (1) output queue, where mevents (message events) are key/value pairs {portName, payload}
- inputs arrive asynchronously over time
- outputs are generated asynchronously over time
- inputs do not always guarantee outputs, sometimes a Part generates _nothing_ (not even _nil_) in response to an input event (this is reasonable if you consider that events are pulses at various times, it is not reasonable if you think in terms of functions that receive all inputs at the same time and generate all outputs at the same time, as we are accustomed to doing with modern programming languages)
- Our commonly accepted use of "functions" in programming languages violates the isolation aspects above. Functions can CALL other functions, usually by name. That hard-wires knowledge of destination into the code. Even Erlang does something like this. An Erlang actor must know the PID of the receiver. We must use indirection and move that routing information (call by name, PID, dependency injection, etc.) out of a Part and into only its parent Container.

# Portability (Another Solution?)
The way I read this, it is just another instance of the "portability" problem. 

We've been trying to invent ultra-general-purpose languages that are portable to any target ISA. As soon as we create new functionality that the ISA doesn't have built in, we hit a problem - more portability on top of portability.

Another way to solve this kind of thing is to invent meta-languages that are higher level than any of the target languages, i.e. treat all existing languages as assembler and their "libraries" and functionality as just more kinds of "opcodes".

I do this kind of thing with T2T (OhmJS + my RWR) a lot. I wrote the PBP kernel in an uber-language, then wrote custom emitters in RWR to pump out Python, JS, Common Lisp, Odin code for each construct in the uber-language. In some cases, you need to need to dumb down the uber syntax and generate boilerplate specific to each target. 

A simple example I had to overcome was how to read JSON files. The code for this in Python is different from the code for this in JS. I simply wrote a single uber line of code, something like "read json into a list-like object" and let the custom emitters create blobs of Python and JS to do the right thing for each language. The result was treated as a "list" in uber code that could reference fields of each object, while the custom emitters created the appropriate code in each language. I described a whole multi-tasking kernel for my PBP stuff this way. The uber language is called '.rt' and the code is in three files `0d.rt`, `stock.rt` and `jit.rt` (see the [PBP repo](https://github.com/guitarvydas/pbp) in the `kernel/` directory (if interested, start by reading the .rt files, there's way too much stuff in that repo to grok in one big gulp - I would be glad to answer questions))