Q: Why can't we plug software modules together like LEGO® blocks?
A: Because software is too complicated.
Q: Why is software too complicated?
A: Because we can't plug software modules together like LEGO® blocks.
Q: Why can't we plug software modules together?
A: Because the interfaces are too complicated.
Q: Why are interfaces too complicated?
A: Because libraries and APIs have hidden dependencies.
Q: Why do libraries and APIs have hidden dependencies?
A: Because we use languages that hide dependencies.
Q: What kind of dependencies are hidden by languages?
A: CALL / RETURN leaves breadcrumbs on stacks, forming dynamic dependency chains.
Q: Why does CALL/RETURN leave breadcrumbs on the stack?
A: RETURN needs to follow the breadcrumbs back to the caller.
Q: What happens when a CALLed routine calls another routine?
A: The callee becomes the caller and leaves another breadcrumb on the stack. 
Q: Why is a stack used?  Why not just use a "register"?
A: Stacks are used so that previously laid breadcrumbs are not over-written.  If we didn't have an automatic stack mechanism to save our breadcrumbs, we'd have to save them manually in some sort of list.
Q: Is the stack of breadcrumbs a dynamic data structure?
A: Yes.
Q: Is the stack of breadcrumbs a dependency chain?
A: Yes:
Q: Is the stack not just a list?
A: Yes, but it is an optimized list.
Q: Why is it necessary to optimize lists to make stacks?
A: Because we need to optimize memory usage.
Q: Why do we need to optimize memory usage?
A: Because memory is expensive
Q: Why is memory expensive?
A: Memory used to be expensive in the 20th century.
Q: Is memory still expensive in the 21st century?
A: No.
Q: Why do we use techniques to optimize memory usage, when memory is no longer expensive?
A: Uh, because we've always done it that way.
Q: Did we notice that the ground truth has shifted?  Memory used to be expensive, but is no longer expensive?
A: Uh, no, we didn't notice.
Q: Why didn't we notice?
A: Uh, because we believe in building on the shoulders of giants. 
Q: Why don't we simply use many CPUs each with private memory, each containing single thread?
A: Because CPUs are expensive.
Q: Are CPUs still expensive in the 21st century?
A: No.
Q: Why do we share memory between cores instead of using completely isolated CPUs?
A: Because using shared memory can be faster for some applications, like graphics.
Q: Does the use of shared memory lead to needing extra software and complication?
A: Yes. We call that "thread safety".
Q: Could we simplify programs and programming languages by removing all of the extra code needed to solve thread safety issues?
A: Yes. Massively. Isolated CPUs can't share memory, hence, do not have thread safety issues.
Q: Why do we keep relying on shared memory models for programming?
A: Uh, because we've always done it this way.
Q: Is there a good reason not to switch to a message-passing model for programming in the 21st century?
A: Not really.
Q: Then, why do we keep hanging on to an old-fashioned, inefficient and complicated model?
A: Uh, because we've always done it this way.
Q: Could we develop faster workflows for program development?
A: Yes.
Q: Why haven't we done that?
A: Uh, because we've always done it the old-fashioned way.
Q: Are we in the weeds?
A: Yes.

- call/return -> strict use of only one routing model



Q: Why do we hard-wire names of receivers and targets into code, violating the principle of topology blindness?
A: Because, otherwise, we would need to use indirection, and that is too inefficient.
Q: Optimization for efficiency is usually performed after a less efficient model has been implemented. Is it generally accepted that premature optimization is bad?
A: Yes, premature optimization is bad.
Q: Why is it OK to apply premature optimization here?
A: Because CPUs and hardware were slow in the 20th century
Q: Are CPUs and hardware slow in the 21st century?
A: No.
Q: Why do we continue to use a model that was prematurely optimized?
A: Uh, because we've always done it this way.

Q: What