The "Canary in the Coal Mine" is just noticing that something is "difficult".

Thinking about something, reasoning about it, expressing are "difficult" if you're using the wrong notation.

Our current programming languages are all based on a single paradigm: the sequential, synchronous functional paradigm. 

The functional paradigm forbids certain concepts and doesn't work if you use those concepts. 

Because of C and Algol and a desire to make "programming" into a kind of mathematics), we strived to use the functional paradigm for everything.

But, our computers need to employ non-functional concepts, like
- mutation
- control flow
- side-effects
- asynchronicity
- eval
- ...

We continued to strive to make our programming languages be "functional", but we added forbidden concepts into the languages, like assignment, heaps, avoidance of GOTO, side-effects, etc. Then, we hit gotchas and gradually backed these concepts out.

In addition, we have to build scaffolding for every paradigm we use. The scaffolding for the functional paradigm is currently called the "operating system". An OS lets us write code in a functional manner while punting concurrency (synchronous concurrency) to be handled by the scaffolding. The OS also lets us bolt code libraries to our code, but only as long as the code libraries are also written in the synchronous, sequential, functional paradigm. Operating systems have grown in size to be much larger than the programs they run. Most other paradigms require much smaller amounts of code for scaffolding. One way to reduce the size of today's code and to speed it up would be to eliminate operating systems.

I think it would be better to simply build different notations for each of the banned concepts.

